risk factors this form 10-k, as well as other reports submitted by us under the securities exchange act of 1934, registration statements filed by us under the securities act of 1933, our annual report to shareholders and other public statements we may make, contain statements (including statements in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of u.s. securities laws, including statements about industry, regulatory, economic and market trends, management's expectations about our financial performance, capital, market growth, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities and earnings, management's confidence in our strategies and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. terminology such as plan, expect, intend, forecast, look, believe, anticipate, estimate, seek, may, will, trend, target and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management's expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of future results. management's expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to state street and its subsidiaries, including state street bank. factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based cannot be foreseen with certainty and include, but are not limited to: the financial strength and continuing viability of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business and to which we have investment, credit or financial exposure, including, for example, the direct and indirect effects on counterparties of the current sovereign-debt risks in europe and other regions; financial market disruptions or economic recession, whether in the u.s., europe, asia or other regions; increases in the volatility of, or declines in the level of, our net interest revenue, changes in the composition of the assets recorded in our consolidated statement of condition (and our ability to measure the fair value of investment securities) and the possibility that we may change the manner in which we fund those assets; the liquidity of the u.s. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities and inter-bank credits, and the liquidity requirements of our clients; the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; the credit quality, credit-agency ratings and fair values of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss in our consolidated statement of income; our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding, and our ability to deploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with our liquidity requirements and risk profile; the manner and timing with which the federal reserve and other u.s. and foreign regulators implement the dodd-frank act, the basel ii and basel iii capital and liquidity standards, and european legislation with respect to the levels of regulatory capital we must maintain, our credit exposure to third parties, margin requirements applicable to derivatives, banking and financial activities and other regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and internationally, including regulatory developments that result in changes to our structure or operating model, 8 table of contents increased costs or other changes to how we provide services; adverse changes in the regulatory capital ratios that we are required to meet, whether arising under the dodd-frank act, the basel ii or basel iii capital and liquidity standards or due to changes in regulatory positions, practices or regulations in jurisdictions in which we engage in banking activities, including changes in internal or external data, formulae, models, assumptions or other advanced systems used in calculating our capital ratios that cause changes in those ratios as they are measured from period to period; increasing requirements to obtain the prior approval of the federal reserve or our other regulators for the use, allocation or distribution of our capital or other specific capital actions or programs, including acquisitions, dividends and equity purchases, without which our growth plans, distributions to shareholders, equity purchase programs or other capital initiatives may be restricted; changes in law or regulation that may adversely affect our business activities or those of our clients or our counterparties, and the products or services that we sell, including additional or increased taxes or assessments thereon, capital adequacy requirements, margin requirements and changes that expose us to risks related to the adequacy of our controls or compliance programs; our ability to promote a strong culture of risk management, operating controls, compliance oversight and governance that meet our expectations or those of our clients and our regulators; the credit agency ratings of our debt and depository obligations and investor and client perceptions of our financial strength; delays or difficulties in the execution of our previously announced business operations and information technology transformation program, which could lead to changes in our estimates of the charges, expenses or savings associated with the planned program and may cause volatility of our earnings; the results of, and costs associated with, government investigations, litigation, and similar claims, disputes, or proceedings; the possibility that our clients will incur substantial losses in investment pools for which we act as agent, and the possibility of significant reductions in the valuation of assets underlying those pools; adverse publicity or other reputational harm; dependencies on information technology, complexities and costs of protecting the security of our systems and difficulties with protecting our intellectual property rights; our ability to grow revenue, control expenses, attract and retain highly skilled people and raise the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements; potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to regulatory and technological changes, the effects of industry consolidation, and perceptions of state street as a suitable service provider or counterparty; potential changes in how and in what amounts clients compensate us for our services, and the mix of services provided by us that clients choose; the ability to complete acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures, including the ability to obtain regulatory approvals, the ability to arrange financing as required and the ability to satisfy closing conditions; the risks that acquired businesses and joint ventures will not achieve their anticipated financial and operational benefits or will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will take longer than anticipated, that expected synergies will not be achieved or unexpected disynergies will be experienced, that client and deposit retention goals will not be met, that other regulatory or operational challenges will be experienced and that disruptions from the transaction will harm our relationships with our clients, our employees or regulators; our ability to recognize emerging needs of our clients and to develop products that are responsive to such trends and profitable to us; the performance of and demand for the products and services we offer; and the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk; our ability to anticipate and manage the level and timing of redemptions and withdrawals from our collateral pools and other collective investment products; our ability to control operating risks, data security breach risks, information technology systems risks and outsourcing risks, and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will prove insufficient, fail or be circumvented; changes in accounting standards and practices; and 9 table of contents changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that affect the amount of taxes due. actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this form 10-k or disclosed in our other sec filings. forward-looking statements should not be relied on as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the time this form 10-k is filed with the sec. we undertake no obligation to revise our forward-looking statements after the time they are made. the factors discussed above and in this section generally are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. we cannot anticipate all developments that may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis on which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our sec filings, including our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934, in particular our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, or registration statements filed under the securities act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov or on our website at www.statestreet.com . the following is a discussion of various risk factors applicable to state street. we assume significant credit risk to counterparties, many of which are major financial institutions. these financial institutions and other counterparties may also have substantial financial dependencies with other financial institutions and sovereign entities. this credit exposure and concentration could expose us to financial loss. the financial markets are characterized by extensive interdependencies among banks, central banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. many financial institutions also hold, or are exposed to, sovereign debt securities in amounts that are material to their financial condition, have exposures to other financial institutions that have significant sovereign debt exposures or seek to mitigate exposures to financial counterparties by accepting collateral consisting of sovereign debt. as a result of our own business practices and these interdependencies, we and many of our clients have concentrated counterparty exposure to other financial institutions, particularly large and complex institutions, and sovereign issuers. although we have procedures for monitoring both individual and aggregate counterparty risk, like other large financial institutions, significant individual and aggregate counterparty exposure is inherent in our business, as our focus is on servicing large institutional investors. from time to time, we assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or group level. such concentrations may be material and can from time to time exceed 10% of our consolidated total shareholders' equity. our material counterparty exposures change daily, and the counterparties or groups of related counterparties to which our risk exposure exceeds 10% of our consolidated total shareholders' equity are also variable during any reported period; however, our largest exposures tend to be to other financial institutions. under evolving regulatory restrictions on credit exposure, which are anticipated to include a broadening of the measure of credit exposure, we may be required to limit our exposures to specific issuers or groups, including financial institutions and sovereign issuers, to levels that we may currently exceed. the credit exposure restrictions under such evolving regulations may adversely affect our businesses and may require that we modify our operating models or our balance sheet management policies and practices. concentration of counterparty exposure presents significant risks to us and to our clients because the failure or perceived weakness of our counterparties (or in some cases of our clients' counterparties) has the potential to expose us to risk of financial loss. changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions or sovereign issuers can occur rapidly, are often based on a variety of factors and are difficult to predict. the continued instability of the financial markets since mid-2007, and the pressure on european financial markets and the euro since 2011, have resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, as reflected in the credit downgrades of numerous large u.s. and non-u.s. financial institutions during 2011 and 2012. credit downgrades during 2011 and 2012 to several sovereign issuers (including the u.s., france, austria, italy, spain, greece and portugal) and other issuers have stressed the perceived creditworthiness of financial institutions, many of which invest in, accept collateral in the form of, or value other transactions based on the debt or other securities issued by, sovereign or other issuers. further economic, political or market turmoil, including with respect to federal budget and federal debt-ceiling concerns in the u.s. and elections in certain european markets in 2013, may lead to stress on sovereign issuers, and increase the potential for sovereign defaults or restructurings, additional credit-rating downgrades or the departure of sovereign issuers from common currencies or economic unions. as a result, we may be exposed to increased counterparty risks, either resulting from our role as principal or because of commitments we make in our capacity as agent for certain of our clients. the degree of client demand for short-term credit tends to increase during periods of market turbulence, exposing us to further counterparty-related risks. for example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may experience significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was not anticipated by the fund's 10 table of contents manager. our relationship with our clients, the nature of the settlement process and limitations in our systems may result in the extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. for some types of clients, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if the client experiences investment losses or other credit difficulties. in addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. we are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties that are affiliated entities and may not be able in all circumstances to net exposures to the same legal entity across multiple products. as a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to an entity's affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured, and when our exposure is secured, the realizable value of the collateral may have declined by the time we exercise our rights against that collateral. this risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily-impaired market. in addition, our clients often purchase securities or other financial instruments from financial counterparties, including broker/dealers, under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. under these arrangements, the counterparty is obligated to repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the client at the same price (plus an agreed rate of return) at some point in the future. the value of the collateral is intended to exceed the counterparty's payment obligation, and collateral is adjusted daily to account for shortfall under, or excess over, the agreed-upon collateralization level. in many cases, we agree to indemnify our clients from any loss that would arise on a default by the counterparty under these repurchase arrangements if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or other financial assets held as collateral are less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the client's counterparty. in such instances of counterparty default, we, rather than our client, are exposed to the risks associated with collateral value. we also engage in certain off-balance sheet activities that involve risks. for example, we provide benefit-responsive contracts, known as wraps, to defined contribution plans that offer a stable value option to their participants. during the financial crisis, the book value of obligations under many of these contracts exceeded the market value of the underlying portfolio holdings. concerns regarding the portfolio of investments protected by such contracts, or regarding the investment manager overseeing such an investment option, may result in redemption demands from stable value products covered by benefit-responsive contracts at a time when the portfolio's market value is less than its book value, potentially exposing us to risk of loss. similarly, we provide credit facilities in connection with the remarketing of municipal obligations, potentially exposing us to credit exposure to the municipalities issuing such bonds and to their increased liquidity demands. in the current economic environment, where municipal credits are subject to increased investor concern, the risks associated with such businesses increase. further, our off-balance sheet activities also include indemnified securities financing obligations, for which we indemnify our clients against losses they incur in connection with the failure of borrowers under our program to return securities on loan. although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our global treasury group, our currency and other trading business, our securities lending business and our investment management business. given the limited number of strong counterparties in the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our clients' counterparty credit risk. the consolidation of financial service firms that occurred as a result of the financial crisis, and the failures of other financial institutions, have increased the concentration of our counterparty risk. our business involves significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. since 2011, greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain and other european economies have experienced, and in the future may experience, difficulties in financing their deficits and servicing their outstanding debt. eurozone instability and sovereign debt concerns, and the downgraded credit ratings of associated sovereign debt and european financial institutions, have contributed to the volatility in the financial markets. this reduced confidence has led to rescue measures for greece, ireland and portugal and a proposed rescue of spain and its banking system by eurozone countries and the international monetary fund. the european central bank, or ecb, has also purchased european sovereign debt to support these markets and the euro. numerous european governments, notably italy and spain, have also adopted austerity and other measures in an attempt to contain the spread of sovereign-debt concerns. the actions required to be taken by certain european countries as a condition to rescue packages and austerity programs, and by other countries to mitigate similar developments in their economies, have increased internal political tensions, and, in the case of greece, italy, portugal and spain, have resulted in internal policy changes. these programs, developments and tensions are likely to be significant factors in elections in certain countries in 2013. the complexity and severity of european sovereign-debt concerns has also resulted in political discord among the eurozone countries. while the council of the european union agreed to measures in december 2012 to establish a single supervisory mechanism, or ssm, whereby the ecb will have direct supervision over eurozone banks, these measures will not take effect until 2014 (or 12 months after the entry into force of the relevant legislation, whichever is later), and many details of the ecb's regulatory role under the ssm have not 11 table of contents been determined. disagreement among eurozone countries remains as to the management of current european sovereign-debt concerns, including potential disagreements on the contemplated implementation of the ssm, and no resolution has been reached on how to stabilize the eurozone for the near and long term, prolonging existing uncertainty about the further spread of sovereign-debt concerns, the continuation of prevailing eurozone treaties, economic interconnectedness and the status of the euro. the decline in the market value of sovereign debt, and the requirement as part of certain rescue packages for creditors to agree to material restructuring of outstanding sovereign debt, have weakened the capital position of many european financial institutions. these institutions have been, and may in the future be, required to raise additional capital to improve their capital positions. these political disagreements, along with the interdependencies among european economies and financial institutions and the substantial refinancing requirements of european sovereign issuers, have exacerbated concern regarding the stability of european financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. the risk of further deterioration remains significant. given the scope of our european operations, clients and counterparties, disruptions in the european financial markets, the failure to resolve fully and contain sovereign-debt concerns, continued recession in significant european economies, the attempt of a country to abandon the euro, the failure of a significant european financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the euro, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. our investment securities portfolio and our consolidated financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in interest, market and credit risks. our investment securities portfolio represented approximately 54% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2012, and the gross interest revenue associated with our investment portfolio represented approximately 25% of our consolidated total gross revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012. as such, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition are materially exposed to the risks associated with our investment portfolio, including, without limitation, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit performance, credit ratings, our access to liquidity, foreign exchange markets, mark-to-market valuations and our ability to profitably reinvest repayments of principal with respect to these securities. the low interest-rate environment that has persisted since the financial crisis began, and is anticipated to continue in 2013 and beyond, limits our ability to achieve a net interest margin in line with our historical averages. relative to many other major financial institutions, investment securities represent a greater percentage of our consolidated statement of condition and commercial loans represent a smaller percentage. in some respects, the accounting and regulatory treatment of our investment securities portfolio may be less favorable to us than a more traditional lending portfolio or a portfolio of u.s. treasury securities. our investment portfolio continues to have significant concentrations in certain classes of securities, including agency and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities and securities with concentrated exposure to consumers. these classes and types of securities experienced significant liquidity, valuation and credit quality deterioration during the financial disruption that began in mid-2007. we also hold non-u.s. mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities with exposures to european countries whose sovereign-debt markets have experienced increased stress since 2011, are expected to continue to experience stress during 2013 and may continue to experience stress in the future. for further information, refer to the risk factor above titled our business involves significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. further, we hold a portfolio of u.s. state and municipal bonds. in view of the budget deficits that a number of states and municipalities currently face, the risks associated with this portfolio have increased. if market conditions similar to those experienced in 2007 and 2008 were to recur, our investment portfolio could experience a decline in liquidity and market value, regardless of our credit view of our portfolio holdings. for example, we recorded significant losses not related to credit in connection with the consolidation of our off-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper conduits in 2009 and the repositioning of our investment portfolio in 2010 with respect to these asset classes. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of our portfolio holdings could result in other-than-temporary impairment. our investment portfolio is further subject to changes in both u.s. and non-u.s. interest rates (primarily in europe), and could be negatively affected by a quicker-than-anticipated increase in interest rates. in addition, while with respect to the carrying value of the securities in our investment portfolio, approximately 88% were rated aaa or aa as of december 31, 2012, if a material portion of our investment portfolio were to experience credit-rating declines below investment grade, our capital ratios as calculated pursuant to the basel ii and basel iii capital and liquidity standards could be adversely affected, which risk is greater with portfolios of investment securities than with loans or holdings of u.s. treasury securities. our business activities expose us to interest-rate risk. in our business activities, we assume interest-rate risk by investing short-term deposits received from our clients in our investment portfolio of longer- and intermediate-term assets. our net interest revenue is affected by the levels of interest rates 12 table of contents in global markets, changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. our ability to anticipate these changes or to hedge the related on- and off-balance sheet exposures can significantly influence the success of our asset-and-liability management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. the impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative duration, and fixed- or floating-rate nature, of our assets and liabilities. sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads generally have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. for additional information about the effects on interest rates on our business, refer to financial condition - market risk - asset-and-liability management activities in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k. if we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our consolidated financial condition, including our regulatory capital ratios, our consolidated results of operations and our business prospects could be adversely affected. liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated statement of condition and to our ability to service our client base. we generally use our liquidity to: extend credit to our clients in connection with our custody business; meet demands for return of funds on deposit by clients; and manage the pool of long- and intermediate-term assets that are included in investment securities in our consolidated statement of condition. because the demand for credit by our clients is difficult to forecast and control, and may be at its peak at times of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment portfolio is significantly longer than the contractual maturity of our client deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent on, access to various sources of short-term funding. during periods of market uncertainty, the level of client deposits has in recent years tended to increase; however, since such deposits are considered to be transitory, we have historically deposited so-called excess deposits with central banks and in other highly liquid and low-yielding instruments. these levels of excess client deposits, as a consequence, have increased our net interest revenue but have adversely affected our net interest margin. the expiration of the fdic's transaction account guarantee, or tag, as of december 31, 2012 may to some extent mitigate the existence of these excess deposits or alter the attractiveness of our deposit service in times of financial crisis. in managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is client deposits, which are predominantly transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based on a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these deposits and the perception of safety of those deposits or short-term obligations relative to alternative short-term investments available to our clients, including the capital markets. in addition, we may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or for which the clients participating in these products have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. these business activities include, among others, securities finance collateral pools, money market and other short-term investment funds and liquidity facilities utilized in connection with municipal bond programs. if clients demand a return of their cash or assets, particularly on limited notice, and these investment pools do not have the liquidity to support those demands, we could be forced to sell investment securities at unfavorable prices, damaging our reputation as an asset manager and potentially exposing us to claims related to our management of the pools. the availability and cost of credit in short-term markets are highly dependent on the markets' perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. our efforts to monitor and manage our liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven reductions in liquidity. as a result of such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending on market conditions, could result in a loss from the sale being recorded in our consolidated statement of income. the conditions since 2007 in the global economy and financial markets have adversely affected us, and they have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses. our businesses have been significantly affected by global economic conditions since 2007 and their impact on financial markets. global credit and other financial markets have at times suffered from substantial volatility, illiquidity and disruption. the resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial stability of certain countries, and in the financial markets generally, have adversely affected our business, as well as the businesses of our clients and our significant counterparties. this environment, and the potential for continuing or additional disruptions, have also affected overall confidence in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and pricing issues within the fixed-income markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses, and have had an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents while global economies and financial markets showed some signs of stabilizing during 2011 and 2012, u.s. sovereign debt, non-u.s. sovereign debt and numerous global financial services firms experienced credit downgrades and recessionary issues. political and sovereign-debt concerns in the eurozone persist and key emerging economies, including those in india, china and brazil, experienced periods of reductions in the rates of their economic growth. the occurrence of additional disruptions in global markets, continued uncertainty with respect to federal budget and federal debt-ceiling concerns in the u.s., continued economic or political uncertainty in europe, or the worsening of economic conditions could further adversely affect our businesses and the financial services industry in general, and also increase the difficulty and unpredictability of aligning our business strategies, our infrastructure and our operating costs in light of current and future market and economic conditions. market disruptions can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations if the value of assets under custody, administration or management decline, while the costs of providing the related services remain constant due to the high fixed costs associated with this business. these factors can reduce the profitability of our asset-based fee revenue and could also adversely affect our transaction-based revenue, such as revenues from securities finance and foreign exchange activities, and the volume of transactions that we execute for or with our clients. further, the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. in general, increased currency volatility tends to increase our market risk but also increases our foreign exchange revenue. conversely, periods of lower currency volatility tend to decrease our market risk but also decrease our foreign exchange revenue. in addition, as our business grows globally and as a greater percentage of our revenue is earned in currencies other than u.s. dollars, our exposure to foreign currency volatility could affect our levels of consolidated revenue, our consolidated expenses and our consolidated results of operations, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations and our investment portfolio holdings. as our product offerings expand, in part as we seek to take advantage of perceived opportunities arising under various regulatory reforms and resulting market changes, the degree of our exposure to various market and credit risks will evolve, potentially resulting in greater revenue volatility. we also will need to make additional investments to develop the operational infrastructure and to enhance our risk management capabilities to support these businesses, which may increase the operating expenses of such businesses or, if our risk management resources fail to keep pace with product expansion, result in increased risk of loss from such businesses. we face extensive and changing government regulation, including changes to capital requirements under the dodd-frank act, current and future capital rules, including the basel iii capital and liquidity standards, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance. most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the clients to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the scope of, and the manner and terms of delivery of, our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulation and supervisory oversight, both in the u.s. and outside the u.s. this regulation and supervisory oversight affects, among other things, the scope of our activities and client services, our capital and organizational structure, our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy, our common stock purchase actions, the manner in which we market our services and our interactions with foreign regulatory agencies and officials. the evolving regulatory landscape in each jurisdiction in which we operate, particularly when applied on a cross-border basis, is not necessarily consistent with the requirements or regulatory objectives of other jurisdictions in which we have clients or operations, and may interfere with our ability to conduct our operations and with our pursuit of a common global operating model, or in a manner that is competitive with other financial institutions operating in those jurisdictions. for example, as a designated systemically important financial institution, or sifi, under the dodd-frank act, we are required to have in place recovery and resolution plans. the purpose of these plans is to demonstrate that we have identified the actions we could take to prevent our failure in the event of major financial distress, and if our failure could not be avoided, that the organization could be resolved in an orderly fashion. the initial preparation, ongoing maintenance and annual update of such plans are costly, and require permanent dedicated internal teams working across the organization. the plans could require us to reorganize our operations to facilitate the implementation of such plans, and possibly to operate our businesses in a less efficient manner than we have historically, each of which outcome could result in material costs to us and therefore affect the profitability of our business in the future. in the event we implement our recovery and resolution plans, in whole or in part, the plans may not achieve their stated objectives. the dodd-frank act of 2010 has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on the regulatory structure of the global financial markets and has imposed, and is expected to impose, significant additional costs on us. while many of the regulations required to be implemented under the dodd-frank act are not yet in final form, and other such regulations have not yet been proposed, the regulatory proposals to date could, if implemented as proposed, potentially have a significant impact on our businesses and state street. for example, if the existing regulatory proposal to implement the so called volcker rule as it applies to the management or sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds became effective as currently proposed, it 14 table of contents would require unaffiliated financial institutions to provide custody services to some of the funds managed by ssga, particularly those outside the u.s. similarly, the proposed enhanced prudential standards applicable to sifis under the dodd-frank act could significantly alter the measurement of credit exposures in our securities lending business and could result in us limiting our business volumes to comply with credit concentration limits. many of the regulations implementing the dodd-frank act are anticipated to be finalized in 2013 and to have compliance dates in 2013 or 2014 and, as a result and together with regulatory change in europe, the costs and impact on our operations of the post-financial crisis regulatory reform are accelerating. our qualification as a sifi, and our designation as a global systemically important bank, or g-sib, by the basel committee on banking supervision, to which certain regulatory capital surcharges may apply, will subject us to incrementally higher capital and prudential requirements than those applicable to some of the financial institutions with which we compete as a custodian or asset manager. the dodd-frank act and its implementing regulations also could adversely affect certain of our business operations and our competitive position, and could also negatively affect the operational and competitive positions of our clients. among other things, the dodd-frank act established a new financial stability oversight council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions, enacted new restrictions on proprietary trading and private-fund investment activities by banks and their affiliates, created a new framework for the regulation of derivatives and the entities that engage in derivatives trading, altered the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred securities and other hybrid capital securities, and revised the assessment base that is used by the fdic to calculate deposit insurance premiums. provisions in the dodd-frank act, as well as regulation in europe, also restrict the flexibility of financial institutions to compensate their employees. in addition, provisions in the dodd-frank act and proposed implementing rules may require changes to the existing capital rules or affect their interpretations by institutions or regulators, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with capital regulations, our business operations, our regulatory capital structure, our regulatory capital ratios or our financial performance. the final effects of the dodd-frank act on our business will depend largely on the scope and timing of the implementation of the act by regulatory bodies, which in many cases has been delayed, and the exercise of discretion by these regulatory bodies. in addition, rapid regulatory change is occurring internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the basel iii capital and liquidity standards and the alternative investment fund managers directive and the adoption of the eu derivatives initiatives and anticipated revisions to the european collective investment fund, or ucits, directive and the market in financial instruments directive. proposed or potential regulations in the u.s. and europe with respect to money market funds or other shadow banking activities could also adversely affect not only our own operations but also the operations of the clients to which we provide services. in europe, the alternative investment fund managers directive increases the responsibilities and potential liabilities of custodians to certain of their clients for asset losses, and proposed revisions to the regulations affecting ucits are anticipated to incorporate similar standards. the dodd-frank act and these other international regulatory changes could limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our regulatory capital requirements, alter the risk profile of certain of our core activities and impose additional costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences, including a reduction of our credit ratings. different countries may respond to the market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting manners, which could increase the cost of compliance for us. the evolving regulatory environment, including changes to existing regulations and the introduction of new regulations, may also contribute to decisions we may make to suspend, reduce or withdraw from existing businesses, activities or initiatives. in addition to potential lost revenue associated with any such suspensions, reductions or withdrawals, any such suspensions, reductions or withdrawals may result in significant restructuring or related costs or exposures. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. similarly, many of our clients are subject to significant regulatory requirements and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. if we cause clients to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. 15 table of contents our business and capital-related activities, including our ability to return capital to shareholders and purchase our capital stock, may be adversely affected by our implementation of the revised regulatory capital and liquidity standards that we must meet under the basel ii and basel iii capital and liquidity standards and the dodd-frank act, or in the event our capital plan or post-stress capital ratios are determined to be insufficient as a result of regulatory stress testing. we are currently in the qualification period that must be completed prior to our full implementation of the basel ii regulatory capital and liquidity standards. during the qualification period, we must demonstrate that we comply with the basel ii capital and liquidity standards to the satisfaction of the federal reserve. during or subsequent to this qualification period, the federal reserve may determine that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the regulation and may require us to take certain actions to come into compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, our regulatory capital structure, our capital ratios or our financial performance, or otherwise restrict our growth plans or strategies. in addition, regulators could change the basel ii capital and liquidity standards or their interpretations as they apply to state street, including changes to these standards and/or interpretations made in regulations implementing provisions of the dodd-frank act, which could adversely affect us and our ability to comply with the basel ii capital and liquidity standards. the basel iii capital and liquidity standards, the dodd-frank act and the rules that must be adopted to implement those standards and the dodd-frank act, as well as our designation as a sifi and identification as a g-sib, are expected to collectively result in increases in the minimum levels of regulatory capital and liquidity that we will be required to maintain, as well as changes in the manner in which our regulatory capital ratios are calculated. banking regulators have not yet issued final rules and guidance with respect to how the revised capital and liquidity standards under basel iii and the dodd-frank act must be implemented by individual banks. consequently, we cannot determine at this time the extent to which our existing regulatory capital position, business operations and strategies will be consistent with these regulatory capital requirements once they are implemented. we also are required by the federal reserve to conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations and to develop an annual capital plan as part of the comprehensive capital analysis and review, which is used by the federal reserve to evaluate our capital management process, the adequacy of our regulatory capital and the potential requirement to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums. the planned capital actions in our capital plan may be objected to by the federal reserve, potentially requiring us to revise our stress testing or capital management approaches, resubmit our capital plan or postpone, cancel or alter our planned capital actions. in addition, changes in our business strategy, merger or acquisition activity or unanticipated uses of capital could result in a change in our capital plan and its associated capital actions, and may require resubmission of the capital plan to the federal reserve for approval. our implementation of these new capital requirements, including our capital plan, may not be approved by the federal reserve, and the federal reserve may impose capital requirements in excess of our expectations or require us to maintain levels of liquidity that are higher than we may expect, and which may adversely affect our consolidated revenues. in the event that our implementation of new capital and liquidity requirements under basel iii and the dodd-frank act or our current capital structure are determined not to conform with current and future capital requirements, our ability to deploy capital in the operation of our business or our ability to distribute capital to shareholders or to purchase our capital stock may be constrained, and our business may be adversely affected. likewise, in the event that regulators in other jurisdictions in which we have banking subsidiaries determine that our capital or liquidity levels do not conform with current and future regulatory requirements, our ability to deploy capital, our levels of liquidity or our business operations in those jurisdictions may be adversely affected. for additional information about basel ii and basel iii, refer to financial condition - capital in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k. our calculations of credit, market and operational risk exposures, total risk-weighted assets and capital ratios for regulatory purposes depend on data inputs, formulae, models, correlations and assumptions that are subject to changes over time, which changes, in addition to our consolidated financial results, could materially change our risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios from period to period. to calculate our credit, market and operational risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios for regulatory purposes, the basel ii and basel iii capital and liquidity standards involve the use of current and historical data, including our own loss data and claims experience and similar information from other industry participants, market volatility measures, interest rates and spreads, asset valuations, credit exposures and the creditworthiness of our counterparties. these calculations also involve the use of quantitative formulae, statistical models, historical correlations and significant assumptions. we refer to the data, formulae, models, correlations and assumptions, as well as our related internal processes, as our advanced systems. while our advanced systems are generally quantitative in nature, significant components involve the exercise of judgment by us and by our regulators based, among other factors, on our and the financial services industry's evolving experience. any of these judgments or other elements of our advanced systems may not, individually or collectively, accurately represent or calculate the scenarios, circumstances, outputs or other results for which they are designed or intended. 16 table of contents in addition, our advanced systems are subject to update and periodic revalidation in response to changes in our business activities and our historical experiences, market forces and events, changes in regulations and regulatory interpretations and other factors, and are also subject to continuing regulatory review and approval. due to the influence of changes in our advanced systems, whether resulting from changes in data inputs, regulation or regulatory supervision or interpretation, state street-specific or more general market activities or experiences, or other updates or factors, we expect that our advanced systems and our credit, market and operational risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios calculated under the basel ii or basel iii capital and liquidity standards will change, and may be volatile, over time, and that those latter changes or volatility could be material as calculated and measured from period to period. we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. we may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings, in response to regulatory changes, including capital rules, or for other purposes, including financing acquisitions and joint ventures. however, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. in the event of rising interest rates, disruptions in financial markets, negative perceptions of our business or our financial strength, or other factors that would increase our cost of borrowing, we cannot be sure of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. any diminished ability to raise additional capital, if needed, could adversely affect our business and our ability to implement our business plan and strategic goals, including the financing of acquisitions and joint ventures. any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm. independent rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. we anticipate that the rating agencies will review our ratings regularly based on our consolidated results of operations and developments in our businesses. our credit ratings were downgraded by each of the principal rating agencies during the first quarter of 2009, and in the fourth quarter of 2011, standard &amp; poor's revised its outlook for our credit ratings to negative from stable. a further downgrade or a significant reduction in our capital ratios might adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to maintain our current credit ratings. the current market environment and our exposure to financial institutions and other counterparties, including sovereign entities, increase the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. a failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in certain products, may be negatively perceived by our clients or counterparties, or may have other adverse reputational effects. additionally, our counterparties, as well as our clients, rely on our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. if we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including the effects of market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or our consolidated results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may be less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us; our clients may reduce or place limits on the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers; and our prospective clients may select other service providers. the risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is higher in the current market environment, in which the consolidation, and in some instances, failure, of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, has resulted in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. if our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our clients, on our or our clients' behalf, will be materially compromised. if our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide to them, our revenues will decrease accordingly. we may not be successful in implementing our announced multi-year program to transform our operating model. in order to maintain and grow our business, we must continuously make strategic decisions about our current and future business plans, including plans to target cost initiatives and enhance operational efficiencies, our plans for entering or exiting business lines or geographic markets, our plans for acquiring or disposing of businesses and our plans to build new systems and other infrastructure, to engage third-party service providers and to address staffing needs. in late 2010, we announced a multi-year program to enhance service excellence and innovation, increase efficiencies and position us for accelerated growth. we continued our implementation of this program during 2012, and it is targeted for completion at the end of 2014. operating model transformations, including this program, entail significant risks. the program, and any future strategic or business plan we implement, may prove to be inadequate for the achievement of the stated objectives, may result in increased or unanticipated costs or risks, may result in earnings volatility, may take longer than anticipated to implement, may involve elements reliant on the performance of third parties and may not be successfully implemented. 17 table of contents in particular, elements of the program include investment in new technologies, such as private processing clouds, to increase global computing capabilities, and also the development of new, and the evolution of existing, methods and tools to accelerate the pace of innovation, the introduction of new services and solutions, the use of service providers associated with components of our technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support, and the enhancement of the security of our systems. the transition to new operating models and technology infrastructure may cause disruptions in our relationships with clients, employees and vendors and may present other unanticipated technical, operational or other hurdles. the success of the program and our other strategic plans could also be affected by market disruptions and unanticipated changes in the overall market for financial services and the global economy. we also may not be able to abandon or alter these plans without significant loss, as the implementation of our decisions may involve significant capital outlays, often far in advance of when we expect to generate any related revenues or cost expectations. accordingly, our business, our consolidated results of operations and our consolidated financial condition may be adversely affected by any failure or delay in our strategic decisions, including the program or elements thereof. for additional information about the program, see consolidated results of operations - expenses in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k. our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. from time to time, our clients, or the government on their or its own behalf, make claims and take legal action relating to, among other things, our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. in any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation or on client demand for our products and services. we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable and estimable loss contingencies. as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements, judgments or regulatory fines may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations or financial condition. in the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. these may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. in regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending or potential matter or, if determined adversely against us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. the resolution of certain pending or potential legal or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, our consolidated financial condition and our reputation. we face litigation and governmental and client inquiries in connection with our execution of indirect foreign exchange trades with custody clients; these issues have adversely affected our revenue from such trading and may cause our revenue from such trading to decline in the future. our custody clients are not required to execute foreign exchange transactions with us. to the extent they execute foreign exchange trades with us, they generally execute a greater volume using our direct methods of execution at negotiated rates or spreads than they execute using our indirect methods at rates we establish. where our clients or their investment managers choose to use our indirect foreign exchange execution methods, generally they elect that service for trades of smaller size or for currencies where regulatory or operational requirements cause trading in such currencies to present greater operational risk and costs for them. given the nature of these trades and other features of our indirect foreign exchange service, we generally charge higher rates for indirect execution than we charge for other trades, including trades in the interbank currency market. in october 2009, the attorney general of the state of california commenced an action against state street bank under the california false claims act and california business and professional code relating to indirect foreign exchange services state street bank provides to certain california state pension plans. the california attorney general has asserted that the rates at which these plans executed indirect foreign exchange transactions were not consistent with the terms of the applicable custody contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, state street bank made false claims and engaged in unfair competition. the attorney general has asserted actual damages of approximately $100 million for periods from 2001 to 2009 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. this action is in the discovery phase. in october 2010, we entered into a $12 million settlement with the state of washington. this settlement resolved a dispute related to the manner in which we priced some indirect foreign exchange transactions during our ten-year relationship with the state of washington. our contract with the state of washington and related disclosures to the state of washington were significantly different from those at issue in our ongoing litigation in california. we provide custody and principal foreign exchange services to government pension plans in other jurisdictions. since the commencement of the litigation in california, attorneys general and other governmental authorities from a number of jurisdictions, as well as u.s. attorney's offices, the u.s. department of labor and the u.s. securities and exchange 18 table of contents commission, have requested information or issued subpoenas in connection with inquiries into the pricing of our foreign exchange services. given that many of these inquiries are ongoing, we can provide no assurance that litigation or regulatory proceedings will not be brought against us or as to the nature of the claims that might be alleged. such litigation or proceedings may be brought on theories similar to those advanced in california or washington or on alternative theories of liability. we offer indirect foreign exchange services, such as those we offer to the california pension plans, to a broad range of custody clients in the u.s. and internationally. we have responded and are responding to information requests from a number of clients concerning our indirect foreign exchange rates. in february 2011, a putative class action was filed in federal court in boston seeking unspecified damages, including treble damages, on behalf of all custodial clients that executed certain foreign exchange transactions with state street from 1998 to 2009. the putative class action alleges, among other things, that the rates at which state street executed foreign currency trades constituted an unfair and deceptive practice under massachusetts law and a breach of the duty of loyalty. two other putative class actions are currently pending in federal court in boston alleging various violations of erisa on behalf of all erisa plans custodied with us that executed indirect foreign exchange transactions with state street from 1998 onward. the complaints allege that state street caused class members to pay unfair and unreasonable rates for indirect foreign exchange transactions with state street. the complaints seek unspecified damages, disgorgement of profits, and other equitable relief. we can provide no assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceedings in california or massachusetts, or whether any other proceedings might be commenced against us by clients or government authorities. for example, the new york attorney general and the united states attorney for the southern district of new york, each of which has brought indirect foreign exchange-related legal proceedings against one of our competitors, have made inquiries to us about our indirect foreign exchange execution methods. we expect that plaintiffs will seek to recover their share of all or a portion of the revenue that we have recorded from providing indirect foreign exchange services. our estimated total revenue worldwide from such services was approximately $248 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, approximately $331 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately $336 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, approximately $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 and approximately $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. although we did not calculate revenue for such services prior to 2006 in the same manner, and have refined our calculation method over time, we believe that the amount of our revenue for such services has been of a similar or lesser order of magnitude for many years. our revenue calculations related to indirect foreign exchange services reflect a judgment concerning the relationship between the rates we charge for indirect foreign exchange execution and indicative interbank market rates near in time to execution. our revenue from foreign exchange trading generally depends on the difference between the rates we set for indirect trades and indicative interbank market rates on the date trades settle. we cannot predict the outcome of any pending matters or whether a court, in the event of an adverse resolution, would consider our revenue to be the appropriate measure of damages. the resolution of pending matters or the resolution of any that may be initiated, filed or threatened could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, our consolidated financial condition and our reputation. the heightened regulatory and media scrutiny on indirect foreign exchange services has resulted in pressure on our pricing of these services, and clients have reduced the volume of trades executed through these services, each of which has had and is anticipated to continue to have an adverse impact on our revenue from, and the profitability of, these services. some custody clients or their investment managers have elected to change the manner in which they execute foreign exchange with us or have decided not to use our foreign exchange execution methods. the decline in our indirect foreign exchange revenue in 2012 compared to 2011 was partly attributable to this shift. we do not expect the market, regulatory and other pressures on our indirect foreign exchange services to decrease in 2013. we intend to continue to offer our custody clients a range of execution options for their foreign exchange needs; however, the range of services, costs and profitability vary by service options. we cannot provide assurance that clients or investment managers who choose to use less or none of our indirect foreign exchange services, or to use alternatives to our existing indirect foreign exchange services, will choose the alternatives offered by us. accordingly, our revenue from these services may decline further. our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our clients incur substantial losses in investment pools in which we act as agent or are restricted in redeeming their interests in these investment pools. we manage assets on behalf of clients in several forms, including in collective investment pools, money market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term investment funds. in addition to the impact on the market value of client portfolios, at various times since 2007, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected the investment performance of certain of our products and our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from our pooled investment vehicles. our management of collective investment pools on behalf of clients exposes us to reputational risk and, in some cases, operational losses. if our clients incur substantial losses in these pools, particularly in money market funds (where there is a general market expectation that net asset value will not drop below $1.00 per share) or other constant net asset value products, receive redemptions as in-kind distributions rather than in cash, or experience significant under-performance relative to the 19 table of contents market or our competitors' products, our reputation could be significantly harmed, which harm could significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple investment pools to achieve scale, we face the risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in the aggregate. within our asset management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds, that generally offer our clients the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally daily or monthly. this feature requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably anticipated liquidity requirements of our clients. the importance of maintaining liquidity varies by product type, but it is a particularly important feature in money market funds and other products designed to maintain a constant net asset value of $1.00. during the market disruption that accelerated following the bankruptcy of lehman brothers, or lehman, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short- and long-term fixed-income securities, declined dramatically, and providing liquidity to meet all client demands in these investment pools without adversely affecting the return to non-withdrawing clients became more difficult. for clients that have invested directly or indirectly in certain of the collateral pools and have sought to terminate their participation in lending programs, we have required, in accordance with the applicable client arrangements, that these withdrawals from the collateral pools take the form of partial in-kind distributions of securities. in the case of ssga funds that engage in securities lending, we implemented limitations, which were terminated in 2010, on the portion of an investor's interest in such fund that may be withdrawn during any month. if higher than normal demands for liquidity from our clients were to return to post-lehman-bankruptcy levels or increase, managing the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools could become more difficult. if such liquidity problems were to recur, our relationships with our clients may be adversely affected, and, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to consolidate the investment pools into our consolidated statement of condition; levels of redemption activity could increase; and our consolidated results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected. in addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and selling the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, if at all, may then be difficult. in 2008, we imposed restrictions on cash redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, as the per unit market value of those funds' assets had declined below the constant $1.00 the funds employ to effect purchase and redemption transactions. both the decline of the funds' net asset value below $1.00 and the imposition of restrictions on redemptions had a significant client, reputational and regulatory impact on us, and the recurrence of such or similar circumstances in the future could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. in december 2010, in order to increase participants' control over the degree of their participation in the lending program, we divided certain agency lending collateral pools into liquidity pools, from which clients could obtain cash redemptions, and duration pools, which are restricted and operate as liquidating accounts. we believe that our practice of effecting purchases and redemptions of units of the collateral pools, and other constant net asset value products, at $1.00 per unit, notwithstanding that the underlying portfolios have a market value of less than $1.00 per unit, complied and continue to comply with the terms of our unregistered cash collateral pools and was in the best interests of participants in the agency lending program. participants in the agency lending program who received units of the duration pool, or who previously received in-kind redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, could seek to assert claims against us in connection with either their loss of liquidity or unrealized mark-to-market losses. if such claims were successfully asserted, such a resolution could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations in future periods. while it is currently not our intention, and we do not have contractual or other obligations to do so, we have in the past guaranteed, and may in the future guarantee, liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a fund or otherwise take actions to mitigate the impact of market conditions on our clients and if permitted by applicable laws. making a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own consolidated liquidity and financial condition. because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity or other demands of our clients. the extreme volatility in the equity markets has led to the potential for the return on passive and quantitative products to deviate from their target returns. any decision by us to provide financial support to an investment pool to support our reputation in circumstances where we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so could result in the recognition of significant losses, could adversely affect the regulatory view of our capital levels or plans and could, in certain situations, require us to consolidate the investment pools into our consolidated statement of condition. any failure of the pools to meet redemption requests, or under-performance of our pools relative to similar products offered by our competitors, could harm our business and our reputation. the potential reputational impact from any decision to support or not to support a fund, and from restrictions on redemptions, is most acute in connection with money market funds and other cash products that employ a constant net asset 20 table of contents value of $1.00 for purposes of effecting subscriptions and redemptions. the continued use of constant net asset value funds, such as money market funds, or the imposition of further conditions on the offering of such funds, is currently under active consideration in both the u.s. and europe. the adoption of certain of the proposals under discussion could expose us to increased risk of loss or could make such products less attractive, potentially affecting our revenue from cash pools that we manage or service. our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. our relationship with many of our clients is predicated on our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet client expectations or fiduciary or other obligations could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain clients or our sources of funding for the same or other businesses. for example, we have experienced adverse publicity with respect to our indirect foreign exchange services, and this adverse publicity has contributed to a shift of client volume to other foreign exchange execution methods. similar, regulatory and reputational issues in our transition management business in the u.k. in 2011 adversely affected our revenue from that business in 2012. preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems, procedures and controls that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and client expectations. cost shifting to non-u.s. jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings. we actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes and business support functions to lower-cost geographic locations, such as poland, india and china. we may accomplish this shift by establishing operations in lower cost locations, by outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions or through joint ventures. this effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these operations. in addition, we are exposed to the relevant macroeconomic, political and similar risks generally involved in doing business in those jurisdictions. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. during periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exist with respect to maintaining a high level of service delivery. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be affected by regulatory and client acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. in addition, the financial benefits of lower-cost locations may diminish over time. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure, both internal and external, to, among other things, record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions and other data, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets. during 2011 and 2012, several financial services firms suffered successful cyber attacks launched domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data and reputational harm. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could adversely affect our ability to process transactions, provide services, maintain compliance and internal controls or otherwise appropriately conduct our business activities. for example, there could be sudden increases in transaction volumes, electrical or telecommunications outages, cyber attacks or employee or contractor error or malfeasance. in addition, updates to these systems and facilities often involve implementation and integration risks. the third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. in particular, we, like other financial services firms, will continue to face increasing cyber security threats, including computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks, information security breaches or employee or contractor error or malfeasance that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our, our clients' or other parties' confidential, proprietary or other information or otherwise disrupt or compromise our or our clients' or other parties' business operations and activities. we therefore could experience significant related costs and exposures, including lost 21 table of contents or constrained ability to provide our services to clients, regulatory inquiries, enforcements, actions and fines, loss of confidential, personal or proprietary information, litigation, damage to our reputation and enhanced competition. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we are subject to claims of third-party intellectual property rights. our potential inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively may allow competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. to the extent that we do not protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, other parties, including former employees, with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. in addition, we may infringe on claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. we may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. third-party intellectual rights, valid or not, may also impede our deployment of the full scope of our products and service capabilities in all jurisdictions in which we operate or market our products and services. the intellectual property of an acquired business may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. however, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent on licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated. competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of uncertainty concerning evolving compensation restrictions applicable, or which may become applicable, to banks and that potentially are not applicable to other financial services firms. the unexpected loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, operations and clients, their years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely affect our clients' perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates or to provide other services to them. we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. the markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. these markets are changing as a result of new and evolving laws and regulations applicable to financial services institutions. regulatory-driven market changes cannot always be anticipated, and may adversely affect the demand for, and profitability of, the products and services that we offer. in addition, new market entrants and competitors may address changes in the markets more rapidly than we do, or may provide clients with a more attractive offering of products and services, adversely affecting our business. we have also experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker/dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. further consolidation within the financial services industry could also pose challenges to us in the markets we serve, including potentially increased downward pricing pressure across our businesses. some of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. these competitors are in some instances significant clients, and the retention of these clients involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality and intra-company confidentiality. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our client after a short notice period. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, client pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures pose risks for our business. as part of our business strategy, we acquire complementary businesses and technologies, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and divest portions of our business. in 2012, we completed our acquisition of goldman sachs administration services, or gsas, and we continued the integration of prior acquisitions. we undertake transactions of varying sizes to, among other reasons, expand our geographic footprint, access new clients, technologies or services, develop closer or more collaborative relationships with our business partners, efficiently deploy capital or leverage cost savings or other business or financial opportunities. we may not achieve the expected benefits of these transactions, which could result in increased costs, 22 table of contents lowered revenues, ineffective deployment of capital, regulatory concerns, exit costs or diminished competitive position or reputation. transactions of this nature also involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, managerial, operational, cultural and employment challenges, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. for example, the businesses that we acquire or our strategic alliances or joint ventures may under-perform relative to the price paid or the resources committed by us; we may not achieve anticipated cost savings; or we may otherwise be adversely affected by acquisition-related charges. further, past acquisitions, including our acquisition of gsas, have resulted in the recognition of goodwill and other significant intangible assets in our consolidated statement of condition. these assets are not eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital under current requirements and proposals. in addition, we may be required to record impairment in our consolidated statement of income in future periods if we determine that these assets will no longer have value. through our acquisitions or joint ventures, we may also assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. while in most of our transactions we seek to mitigate these risks through, among other things, due diligence and indemnification provisions, these or other risk mitigants we put in place may not be sufficient to address these liabilities and contingencies. various regulatory approvals or consents are generally required prior to closing of these transactions, which may include approvals of the federal reserve and other domestic and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms that materially affect the terms of the transaction or our ability to capture some of the opportunities presented by the transaction. any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction. acquisitions or joint ventures we announce may not be completed, if we do not receive the required regulatory approvals, if regulatory approvals are significantly delayed or if other closing conditions are not satisfied. the integration of our acquisitions results in risks to our business and other uncertainties. the integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. integration activities are complicated and time consuming. we may not be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings as anticipated, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related revenue growth or cost savings. we also face the risk of being unable to retain, or cross-sell our products or services to, the clients of acquired companies or joint ventures. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in client dissatisfaction and defection. clients of investment servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these clients or a significant reduction in the revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, could adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions or cause impairment to goodwill and other intangibles. with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients or employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. the introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and resources. substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our clients and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely manner at competitive prices. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives, vendor relationships and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our clients. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, as well as on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. long-term contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk. we enter into long-term contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing services to clients, primarily for conversions, including services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology 23 table of contents development. these arrangements generally set forth our fee schedule for the term of the contract and, absent a change in service requirements, do not permit us to re-price the contract for changes in our costs or for market pricing. the long-term contracts for these relationships require, in some cases, considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. the profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services, efficiently assume our contractual responsibilities in a timely manner, control our costs and maintain the relationship with the client for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. our estimate of the profitability of these arrangements can be adversely affected by declines in the assets under the clients' management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or client-specific issues. in addition, the profitability of these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross-sell additional services to these clients, and we may be unable to do so. performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. our failure to meet specified service levels or implementation timelines may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the client. if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see our revenue decline. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. we may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, foreign exchange risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. we have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. while we currently believe that our risk management process is effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the internal and external, including service provider, risks in our various businesses. risks that individuals, either employees or contractors, consciously circumvent established control mechanisms to, for example, exceed trading or investment management limitations, or commit fraud, are particularly challenging to subject to a control framework. the financial and reputational impact of control failures can be significant. persistent or repeated issues with respect to controls may raise concerns among regulators regarding our culture, governance and control environment. in addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. we may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our businesses or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. if our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, regulatory requirements, our businesses, our counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations. operational risk is inherent in all of our business activities. as a leading provider of services to institutional investors, we provide a broad array of services, including research, investment management, trading services and investment servicing that expose us to operational risk. in addition, these services generate a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. we face the risk that the control policies, procedures and systems we have established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, will be inadequate or will become outdated. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervision or monitoring mechanisms, service-provider processes or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our future consolidated results of operations. operational errors that result in us remitting funds to a failing or bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses. we may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partly beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. in addition, our clients, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the clients, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. when we record balance sheet reserves for probable and estimable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the period in which such actions or matters are resolved. changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. new accounting standards, or changes to existing accounting standards, resulting both from initiatives of the financial accounting standards board or their convergence efforts with the international accounting standards board, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the financial accounting standards board or the sec or otherwise reflected in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, potentially could affect our consolidated results of 24 table of contents operations, cash flows and financial condition. these changes are difficult to predict, and can materially affect how we record and report our consolidated results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of consolidated financial statements for prior periods. changes in tax laws, rules or regulations, challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, and changes in the composition of our pre-tax earnings may increase our effective tax rate and thus adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. our businesses can be directly or indirectly affected by new tax legislation, the expiration of existing tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. the u.s. federal government, massachusetts, other state governments and jurisdictions around the world continue to review proposals to amend tax laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business that could have a negative impact on our after-tax earnings. in the normal course of our business, we are subject to review by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities. a review by any such authority could result in an increase in our recorded tax liability. in addition to the aforementioned risks, our effective tax rate is dependent on the nature and geographic composition of our pre-tax earnings and could be negatively affected by changes in these factors. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects. our businesses and relationships with clients are dependent on our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our clients' trade secrets and confidential information (including client transactional data and personal data about our employees, our clients and our clients' clients). unauthorized access to such information may occur, resulting in theft, loss or other misappropriation. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive positions, our relationships with our clients and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries, enforcement and fines, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs. the quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in inadequate risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions. we use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our businesses. as an input to our overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, operational risk, interest-rate risk and business risk we face. during the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we sometimes use models to measure the value of asset and liability positions for which reliable market prices are not available. we also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading activities, hedging, asset-and-liability management and whether to change business strategy. in all of these uses, errors in the underlying model or model assumptions, or inadequate model assumptions, could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences. because of our widespread usage of models, potential errors in models pose an ongoing risk to us. additionally, we may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations on which we rely may not continue to be relevant. consequently, the measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. while our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have inadequate capital to conduct our businesses. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen events, including terrorist attacks, the emergence of a pandemic or acts of embezzlement. acts of terrorism or the emergence of a pandemic could significantly affect our business. we have instituted disaster recovery and continuity plans to address risks from terrorism and pandemic; however, forecasting or addressing all potential contingencies is not possible for events of this nature. acts of terrorism, either targeted or broad in scope, could damage our physical facilities, harm our employees and disrupt our operations. a pandemic, or concern about a possible pandemic, could lead to operational difficulties and impair our ability to manage our business. acts of terrorism and pandemics could also negatively affect our clients, counterparties and service providers, as well as result in disruptions in general economic activity and the financial markets. terrorism may also take the form of the theft or misappropriation of property, confidential information or financial assets. due to our role as a financial services institution, our businesses are already subject to similar risks of theft, misappropriation and embezzlement with respect to our and our clients' property, information and assets. our employees and contractors and other partners have access to our facilities and internal systems and may seek to create the opportunity to engage in these activities. in the event our controls and procedures to prevent theft, misappropriation or embezzlement fail or are circumvented, our business would be negatively affected by, among other things, the related financial losses, diminished reputation and the 25 table of contents threat of litigation and regulatory inquiry, enforcements and fines, or may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under financial condition-risk management-market risk in management's discussion and analysis, included under item 7 of this form 10-k, is incorporated by reference herein.risk factors forward-looking statements this form 10-k, as well as other reports submitted by us under the securities exchange act of 1934, registration statements filed by us under the securities act of 1933, our annual report to shareholders and other public statements we may make, contain statements (including statements in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of u.s. securities laws, including statements about industry, regulatory, economic and market trends, management's expectations about our financial performance, capital, market growth, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities and earnings, management's confidence in our strategies and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. terminology such as plan, expect, intend, forecast, outlook, believe, anticipate, estimate, seek, may, will, trend, target, strategy and 16 table of contents goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management's expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of future results. management's expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to state street and its subsidiaries, including state street bank. factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based cannot be foreseen with certainty and include, but are not limited to: the financial strength and continuing viability of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business and to which we have investment, credit or financial exposure, including, for example, the direct and indirect effects on counterparties of the sovereign-debt risks in the u.s., europe and other regions; increases in the volatility of, or declines in the level of, our net interest revenue, changes in the composition or valuation of the assets recorded in our consolidated statement of condition (and our ability to measure the fair value of investment securities) and the possibility that we may change the manner in which we fund those assets; the liquidity of the u.s. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities and inter-bank credits, and the liquidity requirements of our clients; the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; the credit quality, credit-agency ratings and fair values of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss in our consolidated statement of income; our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding, and our ability to deploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with our liquidity requirements and risk profile; the manner and timing with which the federal reserve and other u.s. and foreign regulators implement the dodd-frank act changes to the basel iii capital framework and european legislation, such as the alternative investment fund managers directive and undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities directives, with respect to the levels of regulatory capital we must maintain, our credit exposure to third parties, margin requirements applicable to derivatives, banking and financial activities and other regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and internationally, including regulatory developments that result in changes to our structure or operating model, increased costs or other changes to how we provide services; adverse changes in the regulatory capital ratios that we are required or will be required to meet, whether arising under the dodd-frank act or the basel iii capital and liquidity standards, or due to changes in regulatory positions, practices or regulations in jurisdictions in which we engage in banking activities, including changes in internal or external data, formulae, models, assumptions or other advanced systems used in the calculation of our capital ratios that cause changes in those ratios as they are measured from period to period; increasing requirements to obtain the prior approval of the federal reserve or our other regulators for the use, allocation or distribution of our capital or other specific capital actions or programs, including acquisitions, dividends and equity purchases, without which our growth plans, distributions to shareholders, equity purchase programs or other capital initiatives may be restricted; changes in law or regulation, or the enforcement of law or regulation, that may adversely affect our business activities or those of our clients or our counterparties, and the products or services that we sell, including additional or increased taxes or assessments thereon, capital adequacy requirements, margin requirements and changes that expose us to risks related to the adequacy of our controls or compliance programs; financial market disruptions or economic recession, whether in the u.s., europe, asia or other regions; our ability to promote a strong culture of risk management, operating controls, compliance oversight and governance that meet our expectations and those of our clients and our regulators; the results of, and costs associated with, government investigations, litigation and similar claims, disputes, or proceedings; 17 table of contents delays or difficulties in the execution of our previously announced business operations and information technology transformation program, which could lead to changes in our estimates of the charges, expenses or savings associated with the planned program and may cause volatility of our earnings; the potential for losses arising from our investments in sponsored investment funds; the possibility that our clients will incur substantial losses in investment pools for which we act as agent, and the possibility of significant reductions in the liquidity or valuation of assets underlying those pools; our ability to anticipate and manage the level and timing of redemptions and withdrawals from our collateral pools and other collective investment products; the credit agency ratings of our debt and depository obligations and investor and client perceptions of our financial strength; adverse publicity, whether specific to state street or regarding other industry participants or industry-wide factors, or other reputational harm; our ability to control operational risks, data security breach risks and outsourcing risks, and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will prove insufficient, fail or be circumvented; dependencies on information technology and our ability to control related risks, including cyber-crime and other threats to our information technology infrastructure and systems and their effective operation both independently and with external systems, and complexities and costs of protecting the security of our systems and data; our ability to grow revenue, control expenses, attract and retain highly skilled people and raise the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements; changes or potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to regulatory and technological changes, the effects of industry consolidation and perceptions of state street as a suitable service provider or counterparty; changes or potential changes in how and in what amounts clients compensate us for our services, and the mix of services provided by us that clients choose; our ability to complete acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures, including the ability to obtain regulatory approvals, the ability to arrange financing as required and the ability to satisfy closing conditions; the risks that our acquired businesses and joint ventures will not achieve their anticipated financial and operational benefits or will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will take longer than anticipated, that expected synergies will not be achieved or unexpected negative synergies will be experienced, that client and deposit retention goals will not be met, that other regulatory or operational challenges will be experienced, and that disruptions from the transaction will harm our relationships with our clients, our employees or regulators; our ability to recognize emerging needs of our clients and to develop products that are responsive to such trends and profitable to us, the performance of and demand for the products and services we offer, and the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk; changes in accounting standards and practices; and changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that affect the amount of taxes due. actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this form 10-k or disclosed in our other sec filings. forward-looking statements should not be relied on as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the time this form 10-k is filed with the sec. we undertake no obligation to revise our forward-looking statements after the time they are made. the factors discussed above and in this section generally are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. we cannot anticipate all developments that may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis on which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our sec filings, including our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934, in particular our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, or registration statements filed under the securities act of 1933, all of which are 18 table of contents accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov or on the investor relations section of our website at www.statestreet.com . risk factors in the normal course of our business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. the following is a discussion of various risk factors applicable to state street. additional information about our risk management framework is included under risk management in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k. additional risks beyond those described in management's discussion and analysis or in the following discussion may be inherent in our activities or operations as currently conducted, or as we may conduct them in the future, or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. credit and counterparty, liquidity and market risks we assume significant credit risk to counterparties, many of which are major financial institutions. these financial institutions and other counterparties may also have substantial financial dependencies with other financial institutions and sovereign entities. this credit exposure and concentration could expose us to financial loss. the financial markets are characterized by extensive interdependencies among numerous parties, including banks, central banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. many financial institutions also hold, or are exposed to, loans, sovereign debt, fixed-income securities, derivatives, counterparty and other forms of credit risk in amounts that are material to their financial condition. as a result of our own business practices and these interdependencies, we and many of our clients have concentrated counterparty exposure to other financial institutions, particularly large and complex institutions, and sovereign issuers. although we have procedures for monitoring both individual and aggregate counterparty risk, significant individual and aggregate counterparty exposure is inherent in our business, as our focus is on servicing large institutional investors. from time to time, we assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or group level. such concentrations may be material and can from time to time exceed 10% of our consolidated total shareholders' equity. our material counterparty exposures change daily, and the counterparties or groups of related counterparties to which our risk exposure exceeds 10% of our consolidated total shareholders' equity are also variable during any reported period; however, our largest exposures tend to be to other financial institutions. concentration of counterparty exposure presents significant risks to us and to our clients because the failure or perceived weakness of our counterparties (or in some cases of our clients' counterparties) has the potential to expose us to risk of financial loss. changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions or sovereign issuers can occur rapidly, are often based on a variety of factors and are difficult to predict. since mid-2007, the continued instability of the financial markets has resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, as reflected in the credit downgrades of numerous large u.s. and non-u.s. financial institutions in recent years. also, credit downgrades to several sovereign issuers (including the u.s., austria, france, greece, italy, the netherlands, portugal and spain) and other issuers have stressed the perceived creditworthiness of financial institutions, many of which invest in, accept collateral in the form of, or value other transactions based on the debt or other securities issued by sovereign or other issuers. further economic, political or market turmoil or developments, including with respect to federal budget or federal debt-ceiling concerns in the u.s. or the reduction in levels of quantitative easing in the u.s. and other developed countries, may lead to stress on sovereign issuers, and increase the potential for sovereign defaults or restructurings, additional credit-rating downgrades or the departure of sovereign issuers from common currencies or economic unions. as a result, we may be exposed to increased counterparty risks, either resulting from our role as principal or because of commitments we make in our capacity as agent for some of our clients. the degree of client demand for short-term credit tends to increase during periods of market turbulence, which may expose us to further counterparty-related risks. for example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may experience significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was unanticipated by the fund's manager. our relationship with our clients, the nature of the settlement process and limitations in our systems may result in the extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. for some types of clients, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if the client experiences investment losses or other credit difficulties. in addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. we are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties that are affiliated entities and may not be able in all circumstances to net exposures to the same legal entity across multiple products. as a 19 table of contents consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to an entity's affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. our use of unaffiliated subcustodians and changing regulatory requirements with respect to our financial exposures in the event those subcustodians are unable to return a client's assets also expose us to credit exposure to those subcustodians. moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured, and when our exposure is secured, the realizable value of the collateral may have declined by the time we exercise our rights against that collateral. this risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily-impaired market. on behalf of clients enrolled in our securities lending program, we lend securities to banks, broker/dealers and other institutions. in most circumstances, we indemnify our clients for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. borrowers are generally required to provide collateral equal to a contractually-agreed percentage equal to or in excess of the fair value of the loaned securities. as the fair value of the loaned securities changes, additional collateral is provided by the borrower or collateral is returned to the borrower. in addition, our clients often purchase securities or other financial instruments from financial counterparties, including broker/dealers, under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. under these arrangements, the counterparty is obligated to repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the client at the same price (plus an agreed rate of return) at some point in the future. the value of the collateral is intended to exceed the counterparty's payment obligation, and collateral is adjusted daily to account for shortfall under, or excess over, the agreed-upon collateralization level. as with the securities lending program, we agree to indemnify our clients from any loss that would arise on a default by the counterparty under these repurchase arrangements if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or other financial assets held as collateral are less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the client's counterparty. in such instances of counterparty default, for both securities lending and repurchase agreements, we, rather than our client, are exposed to the risks associated with collateral value. we also engage in certain off-balance sheet activities that involve risks. for example, we provide benefit-responsive contracts, known as wraps, to defined contribution plans that offer a stable value option to their participants. during the financial crisis, the book value of obligations under many of these contracts exceeded the market value of the underlying portfolio holdings. concerns regarding the portfolio of investments protected by such contracts, or regarding the investment manager overseeing such an investment option, may result in redemption demands from stable value products covered by benefit-responsive contracts at a time when the portfolio's market value is less than its book value, potentially exposing us to risk of loss. similarly, we provide credit facilities in connection with the remarketing of u.s. municipal obligations, potentially exposing us to credit exposure to the municipalities issuing such bonds and to their increased liquidity demands. in the current economic environment, where municipal credits are subject to increased investor concern, the risks associated with such businesses increase. further, our off-balance sheet activities also include our agreement, described above, to indemnify our clients for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. under evolving regulatory restrictions on credit exposure, which are anticipated to include a broadening of the measure of credit exposure, we may be required to limit our exposures to specific issuers or groups, including financial institutions and sovereign issuers, to levels that we may currently exceed. these credit exposure restrictions under such evolving regulations may adversely affect our businesses and may require that we modify our operating models or the policies and practices we use to manage our consolidated statement of condition. although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our global treasury group, our currency trading business, our securities finance business, and our investment management business. given the limited number of strong counterparties in the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our clients' counterparty credit risk. our investment securities portfolio, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in interest rate, market and credit risks. our investment securities portfolio represented approximately 48% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2013 , and the gross interest revenue associated with our investment portfolio represented approximately 22% of our consolidated total gross revenue for the year ended december 31, 2013 . as such, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are materially exposed to the risks associated with our investment portfolio, including, without limitation, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit performance, credit ratings, our access to liquidity, foreign exchange markets, mark-to-market valuations, and our ability to profitably reinvest repayments of principal with respect to these securities. the low interest-rate environment that has persisted since the financial crisis began in mid-2007, and may continue in 2014 and beyond, limits our ability to achieve a net interest margin consistent with our historical averages. 20 table of contents our investment securities portfolio represents a greater proportion of our consolidated statement of condition and our loan and lease portfolios represent a smaller proportion (approximately 6% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2013 ), in comparison to many other major financial institutions. in some respects, the accounting and regulatory treatment of our investment securities portfolio may be less favorable to us than a more traditional held-for-investment lending portfolio or a portfolio of u.s. treasury securities. for example, under the u.s. basel iii final rule issued in july 2013, after-tax changes in the fair value of investment securities classified as available for sale will be included in tier 1 capital. since loans held for investment are not subject to a fair-value accounting framework, changes in the fair value of loans (other than incurred credit losses) are not similarly included in the determination of tier 1 capital under the u.s. basel iii final rule. due to this differing treatment, we may experience increased variability in our tier 1 capital relative to other major financial institutions whose loan-and-lease portfolios represent a larger proportion of their consolidated total assets than ours. our investment portfolio continues to have significant concentrations in certain classes of securities, including agency and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities, and securities with concentrated exposure to consumers. these classes and types of securities experienced significant liquidity, valuation and credit quality deterioration during the financial disruption that began in mid-2007. we also hold non-u.s. mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities with exposures to european countries, whose sovereign-debt markets have experienced increased stress since 2011 and may continue to experience stress in the future. for further information, refer to the risk factor titled our businesses have significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. further, we hold a portfolio of u.s. state and municipal bonds. in view of the budget deficits that a number of states and municipalities currently face, the risks associated with this portfolio have increased. if market conditions similar to those experienced in 2007 and 2008 were to recur, our investment portfolio could experience a decline in liquidity and market value, regardless of our credit view of our portfolio holdings. for example, we recorded significant losses not related to credit in connection with the consolidation of our off-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper conduits in 2009 and the repositioning of our investment portfolio in 2010 with respect to these asset classes. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of our portfolio holdings could result in other-than-temporary impairment. our investment portfolio is further subject to changes in both u.s. and non-u.s. (primarily in europe) interest rates, and could be negatively affected by a quicker-than-anticipated increase in interest rates. in addition, while approximately 89% of the carrying value of the securities in our investment portfolio was composed of securities rated aaa or aa as of december 31, 2013 , if a material portion of our investment portfolio were to experience credit-rating declines below investment grade, our capital ratios as calculated pursuant to the basel iii regulatory capital and liquidity standards could be adversely affected. this risk is greater with portfolios of investment securities than with loans or holdings of u.s. treasury securities. our business activities expose us to interest-rate risk. in our business activities, we assume interest-rate risk by investing short-term deposits received from our clients in our investment portfolio of longer- and intermediate-term assets. our net interest revenue is affected by the levels of interest rates in global markets, changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. our ability to anticipate these changes or to hedge the related on- and off-balance sheet exposures can significantly influence the success of our asset-and-liability management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. the impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative duration and fixed- or floating-rate nature of our assets and liabilities. sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads generally have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. for additional information about the effects on interest rates on our business, refer to financial condition - market risk - asset-and-liability management activities in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k. if we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our consolidated financial condition, including our regulatory capital ratios, our consolidated results of operations and our business prospects, could be adversely affected. liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated statement of condition and to our ability to service our client base. we generally use our liquidity to: extend credit to our clients in connection with our custody business; meet clients' demands for return of their deposits; and 21 table of contents manage the pool of long- and intermediate-term assets that are included in the investment securities carried in our consolidated statement of condition. because the demand for credit by our clients is difficult to predict and control, and may be at its peak at times of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment securities portfolio is longer than the contractual maturity of our client deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent on access to, various sources of short-term funding. during periods of market uncertainty, the level of client deposits held by us has in recent years tended to increase; however, since such deposits are considered to be transitory, we have historically deposited so-called excess deposits with u.s. and non-u.s. central banks and in other highly liquid but low-yielding instruments. these levels of excess client deposits, as a consequence, have increased our net interest revenue but have adversely affected our net interest margin. in managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is client deposits, which are predominantly transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based on a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these deposits and the perception of safety of these deposits or short-term obligations relative to alternative short-term investments available to our clients, including the capital markets. in addition, we may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or for which the clients participating in these products have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. these business activities include, among others, securities finance collateral pools, money market and other short-term investment funds and liquidity facilities utilized in connection with municipal bond programs. if clients demand a return of their cash or assets, particularly on limited notice, and these investment pools do not have the liquidity to support those demands, we could be forced to sell investment securities at unfavorable prices, damaging our reputation as an asset manager and potentially exposing us to claims related to our management of the pools. the availability and cost of credit in short-term markets are highly dependent on the markets' perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. our efforts to monitor and manage our liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven reductions in liquidity. as a result of such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment securities portfolio, which, depending on market conditions, could result in a loss from such sales of investment securities being recorded in our consolidated statement of income. our business and capital-related activities, including our ability to return capital to shareholders and purchase our capital stock, may be adversely affected by our implementation of the revised regulatory capital and liquidity standards that we must meet under basel iii, the dodd-frank act and other regulatory initiatives, or in the event our capital plan or post-stress capital ratios are determined to be insufficient as a result of regulatory capital stress testing. in july 2013, u.s. banking regulators issued a final rule implementing the basel iii capital standards in the u.s. the u.s. basel iii final rule replaces the existing basel i- and basel ii-based capital regulations. as a so-called advanced approaches banking organization, we became subject to the u.s. basel iii final rule on january 1, 2014. we are currently in the qualification, or parallel run, period that must be completed prior to our full implementation of the basel iii advanced approaches capital rules. during the parallel run period, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the federal reserve that our models, systems and processes for calculating capital comply with the qualitative and quantitative requirements in the basel iii advanced approaches capital rules. during or subsequent to this qualification period, the federal reserve may determine that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the advanced approaches capital rules and may require us to take certain actions to come into compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, our regulatory capital structure, our capital ratios or our financial performance, or otherwise restrict our growth plans or strategies. in addition, banking regulators could change the basel iii capital standards or their interpretations as they apply to us, including changes to these standards or interpretations made in regulations implementing provisions of the dodd-frank act, which could adversely affect us and our ability to comply with the basel iii advanced approaches capital rules. on february 21, 2014, we were notified by the federal reserve that we have completed our parallel run period and will be required to begin using the advanced approaches framework as provided in the federal reserve's july 2013 basel iii final rule in the determination of our risk-based capital requirements. pursuant to this notification, we will use the advanced approaches framework to calculate and publicly disclose our risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014. under the july 2013 basel iii final rule, we must meet the 22 table of contents minimum risk-based capital ratios under both the advanced approaches and generally applicable risk-based capital frameworks in basel iii and basel i, respectively. our current assessment of the implications of the u.s. basel iii final rule indicates a potential impact which could be material to our businesses and our profitability, as well as to our regulatory capital ratios. the u.s. basel iii final rule requires us to apply the simplified supervisory formula approach, referred to as the ssfa, to determine the risk weights of securitization exposures, such as asset-backed securities, carried in our investment securities portfolio. in contrast, the existing capital rules provided for a ratings-based approach under which external credit ratings were used to determine the risk weight of securitization exposures. the dodd-frank act prohibits the use of external credit ratings in federal regulations, resulting in the elimination of the ratings-based approach by the u.s. basel iii final rule. currently, our investment securities portfolio contains significant holdings of mortgage- and asset-backed securities that are highly rated by credit rating agencies, for which the ssfa would apply higher regulatory risk weights compared to basel i and basel ii. at the same time, certain of our securitization exposures with lower credit ratings would receive lower regulatory risk weights under the ssfa compared to basel i and basel ii. based on the composition of our investment portfolio with respect to the types of securities and related external credit ratings as of december 31, 2013, application of the ssfa would materially increase our total risk-weighted assets relative to those calculated under basel i and basel ii, and correspondingly decrease our regulatory risk-based capital ratios. as a result, we are re-evaluating the composition of our investment portfolio in order to maintain an investment strategy appropriately aligned with the capital requirements under basel iii. this re-evaluation could result in the reinvestment of cash flows from our portfolio securities into different types of investments, which could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations by reducing our net interest revenue and which could increase the amount of credit risk inherent in our consolidated statement of condition. there remains considerable uncertainty with respect to multiple provisions of the u.s. basel iii final rule, and the timing and manner in which they will be applied to us. models implemented under the u.s. basel iii final rule, particularly those implementing the basel iii advanced approaches capital rules, remain subject to regulatory review and approval. in addition, the u.s. basel iii final rule contains additional new requirements, such as a supplementary leverage ratio, and further capital and liquidity requirements are under consideration by u.s. and international banking regulators, such as a liquidity coverage and a net stable funding ratio, each of which has the potential to have significant effects on our capital and liquidity planning and activities. for example, the specification of the various elements of the u.s. liquidity coverage ratio in the final rule, when adopted, such as the eligibility of assets as high-quality liquid assets, the calculation of net outflows, including the treatment of operational deposits, and the timing of indeterminate maturities, could have a material effect on our business activities, including the management and composition of our investment securities portfolio and our ability to extend committed contingent credit facilities to our clients. the full effects of the basel iii final rule, and of other regulatory initiatives related to capital or liquidity, on state street and state street bank are therefore subject to further evaluation and also to further regulatory guidance, action or rule-making. in general, as an identified global systemically important bank, or g-sib, we generally expect to be held to the most stringent provisions under the u.s. basel capital framework. we are also required by the federal reserve to conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations and to develop an annual capital plan as part of the federal reserve's comprehensive capital analysis and review process, which process is used by the federal reserve to evaluate our management of capital, the adequacy of our regulatory capital and the potential requirement for us to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums. the planned capital actions in our capital plan, including common stock purchases and dividends, may be objected to by the federal reserve, potentially requiring us to revise our stress-testing or capital management approaches, resubmit our capital plan or postpone, cancel or alter our planned capital actions. in addition, changes in our business strategy, merger or acquisition activity or unanticipated uses of capital could result in a change in our capital plan and its associated capital actions, and may require resubmission of the capital plan to the federal reserve for approval. we also expect to be subject to asset quality reviews and stress testing by other regulators, such as the ecb. our implementation of the new capital and liquidity requirements, including our capital plan, may not be approved or may be objected to by the federal reserve, and the federal reserve may impose capital requirements in excess of our expectations or require us to maintain levels of liquidity that are higher than we may expect, and which may adversely affect our consolidated revenues. in the event that our implementation of new capital and liquidity requirements under basel iii, the dodd-frank act or other regulatory initiatives or our current capital structure are determined not to conform with current and future capital requirements, our ability to deploy capital in 23 table of contents the operation of our business or our ability to distribute capital to shareholders or to purchase our capital stock may be constrained, and our business may be adversely affected. likewise, in the event that regulators in other jurisdictions in which we have banking subsidiaries determine that our capital or liquidity levels do not conform with current and future regulatory requirements, our ability to deploy capital, our levels of liquidity or our business operations in those jurisdictions may be adversely affected. for additional information about the above matters, refer to business - supervision and regulation - regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity standards included under item 1, and financial condition - capital in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7, of this form 10-k. our businesses have significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. since 2011, greece, ireland, italy, portugal, spain and other european economies have experienced, and in the future may experience, difficulties in financing their deficits and servicing their outstanding debt. eurozone instability and sovereign debt concerns, and the downgraded credit ratings of associated sovereign debt and european financial institutions, have contributed to the volatility in the financial markets. this reduced confidence has led to support for greece, ireland, portugal, and spain by eurozone countries and the international monetary fund. the ecb has also purchased european sovereign debt to support these markets and the euro. numerous european governments, notably italy and spain, have also adopted austerity and other measures in an attempt to contain the spread of sovereign-debt concerns. disagreement among eurozone countries remains as to the management of current european sovereign-debt concerns and their impact on european financial institutions. the decline in the market value of sovereign debt, and the requirement as part of certain rescue packages for creditors to agree to material restructuring of outstanding sovereign debt, have weakened the capital position of many european financial institutions. these institutions have been, and may in the future be, required to raise additional capital to improve their capital positions. these political disagreements, along with the interdependencies among european economies and financial institutions and the substantial refinancing requirements of european sovereign issuers, have exacerbated concern regarding the stability of the euro, european financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. given the scope of our european operations, clients and counterparties, disruptions in the european financial markets, the failure to resolve fully and contain sovereign-debt concerns, continued recession in significant european economies, the attempt of a country to abandon the euro, the failure of a significant european financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the euro, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. the conditions since 2007 in the global economy and financial markets have adversely affected us, and they have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses. our businesses have been significantly affected by global economic conditions since 2007 and their impact on financial markets. global credit and other financial markets have at times suffered from substantial volatility, illiquidity and disruption. the resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial stability of certain countries, and in the financial markets generally, have adversely affected our business, as well as the businesses of our clients and our significant counterparties. this environment, and the potential for continuing or additional disruptions, have also affected overall confidence in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and pricing issues within the fixed-income securities markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses, and have had an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. while global economies and financial markets showed some signs of stabilizing during 2013, numerous global financial services firms and the sovereign debt of some nations experienced credit downgrades and recessionary issues. the occurrence of additional disruptions in global markets, continued uncertainty with respect to federal budget and federal debt-ceiling concerns in the u.s., continued economic or political uncertainty in europe, or the worsening of economic conditions, could further adversely affect our businesses and the financial services industry in general, and also increase the difficulty and unpredictability of aligning our business strategies, our infrastructure and our operating costs in light of current and future market and economic conditions. market disruptions can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations if the value of assets under custody, administration or management decline, while the costs of providing the related services remain constant due to the high fixed costs associated with this business. these factors can reduce the profitability of our asset-based fee revenue and could also adversely affect our transaction-based revenue, such as revenues from securities finance and foreign exchange activities, and the volume of transactions that we execute for or with our clients. further, the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. 24 table of contents in general, increased currency volatility tends to increase our market risk but also increases our foreign exchange revenue. conversely, periods of lower currency volatility tend to decrease our market risk but also decrease our foreign exchange revenue. in addition, as our business grows globally and as a greater percentage of our revenue is earned in currencies other than u.s. dollars, our exposure to foreign currency volatility could affect our levels of consolidated revenue, our consolidated expenses and our consolidated results of operations, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations and our investment portfolio holdings. as our product offerings expand, in part as we seek to take advantage of perceived opportunities arising under various regulatory reforms and resulting market changes, the degree of our exposure to various market and credit risks will evolve, potentially resulting in greater revenue volatility. we also will need to make additional investments to develop the operational infrastructure and to enhance our risk management capabilities to support these businesses, which may increase the operating expenses of such businesses or, if our risk management resources fail to keep pace with product expansion, result in increased risk of loss from such businesses. we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. we may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings in response to regulatory changes, including capital rules, or for other purposes, including financing acquisitions and joint ventures. however, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. in the event of rising interest rates, disruptions in financial markets, negative perceptions of our business or our financial strength, or other factors that would increase our cost of borrowing, we cannot be sure of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. any diminished ability to raise additional capital, if needed, could adversely affect our business and our ability to implement our business plan, capital plan and strategic goals, including the financing of acquisitions and joint ventures. any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm. major independent rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. we anticipate that the rating agencies will review our ratings regularly based on our consolidated results of operations and developments in our businesses. one or more of the major independent credit rating agencies have in the recent past downgraded, and may in the future downgrade, our credit ratings, or have negatively revised their outlook for our credit ratings. in november 2013, moody's investors service downgraded the long-term senior and subordinated debt ratings for state street bank. the current market environment and our exposure to financial institutions and other counterparties, including sovereign entities, increase the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to maintain our current credit ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. a failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in certain products. additionally, our counterparties, as well as our clients, rely on our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. if we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including the effects of market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or consolidated results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may be less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us; our clients may reduce or place limits on the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers; or our prospective clients may select other service providers,all of which may have other adverse effects on our reputation. the risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is higher in the current market environment, in which the consolidation, and in some instances failure, of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, have resulted in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. if our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our clients, on our or our clients' behalf, will be materially compromised. if our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide to them, our revenues will decrease accordingly. operational, business and reputational risks we face extensive and changing government regulation in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance. 25 table of contents most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the clients to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the scope of, and the manner and terms of delivery of, our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulation and supervisory oversight, both in and outside of the u.s. this regulation and supervisory oversight affects, among other things, the scope of our activities and client services, our capital and organizational structure, our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy, our common stock purchase actions, the manner in which we market our services, and our interactions with foreign regulatory agencies and officials. several aspects of the regulatory environment in which we operate, and related risks, are discussed below. additional information is provided in business - supervision and regulation included under item 1 of this form 10-k. the dodd-frank act, which became law in july 2010, has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on the regulatory structure of the global financial markets and has imposed, and is expected to continue to impose, significant additional costs on us. while u.s. banking regulators have finalized many regulations to implement various provisions of the dodd-frank act, they plan to propose or finalize additional implementing regulations in the future. in light of the further rule-making required to fully implement the dodd-frank act, as well as the discretion afforded to federal regulators, the full impact of this legislation on us, our business strategies and financial performance is not known at this time and may not be known for a number of years. several elements of the dodd-frank act, such as the volcker rule and enhanced prudential standards for financial institutions designated as systemically important financial institutions, or sifis, impose or are expected to impose significant additional operational, compliance and risk management costs both in the near-term, as we develop and integrate appropriate systems and procedures, and on a recurring basis thereafter, as we monitor, support and refine those systems and procedures. a number of regulations implementing the dodd-frank act that are not yet final are anticipated to be finalized in 2014, with compliance dates soon thereafter, and, as a result of and together with regulatory change in europe, the costs and impact on our operations of the post-financial crisis regulatory reform are accelerating. we may not anticipate completely all areas in which the dodd-frank act or other regulatory initiatives could affect our business or influence our future activities or the full effects or extent of related operational, compliance, risk management or other costs. the fdic and the federal reserve jointly issued a final rule under the dodd-frank act pursuant to which we are required to submit annually to the federal reserve and the fdic a plan, known as a resolution plan, for our rapid and orderly resolution under the bankruptcy code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the event of material financial distress or failure. the fdic also issued a final rule pursuant to which state street bank is required to submit annually to the fdic a plan for resolution in the event of its failure. we and state street bank submitted our most recent annual resolution plan to the federal reserve and the fdic on october 1, 2013. if the fdic and the federal reserve should determine that our resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the bankruptcy code, we could be subject to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, or be required to divest certain of our assets or operations. other provisions of the dodd-frank act and its implementing regulations, such as new rules for swap market participants, additional regulation of financial system utilities, the designation of non-bank institutions as sifis, and further requirements to facilitate orderly liquidation of large institutions, could adversely affect certain of our business operations and our competitive position, and could also negatively affect the operational and competitive positions of our clients. the final effects of the dodd-frank act on our business will depend largely on the scope and timing of the implementation of the dodd-frank act by regulatory bodies, which in many cases have been delayed, and the exercise of discretion by these regulatory bodies. the breadth of our business activities, together with the scope of our global operations and varying business practices in relevant jurisdictions, increase the complexity and costs of meeting our regulatory compliance obligations, including in areas that are receiving significant regulatory scrutiny. we are, therefore, subject to related risks of non-compliance, including fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining approvals, limitations on our business activities, or reputational harm, any of which may be significant. for example, the global nature of our client base requires us to comply with complex regulations relating to money laundering and anti-terrorist monitoring of our clients. regulatory scrutiny of compliance with these and other regulations is increasing and our operations are subject to regulations from multiple jurisdictions. the overall evolving regulatory landscape in each jurisdiction in which we operate, including requirements or restrictions on our service offerings or opportunities for new service offerings, particularly when applied on a cross-border basis, is not 26 table of contents necessarily consistent with the requirements or regulatory objectives of other jurisdictions in which we have clients or operations. this evolving regulatory landscape may interfere with our ability to conduct our operations, with our pursuit of a common global operating model or with our ability to compete effectively with other financial institutions operating in those jurisdictions or which may be subject to different regulatory requirements than apply to us. in particular, non-u.s. regulation and initiatives may be inconsistent or conflict with current or proposed regulations in the u.s., which could create increased compliance and other costs that would adversely affect business, operations or profitability. our designation under the dodd-frank act in the u.s. as a sifi, and our identification by the financial stability board as a g-sib, to which certain regulatory capital surcharges may apply, will subject us to incrementally higher capital and prudential requirements, and may result in increased scrutiny of our activities and potential further regulatory requirements, than those applicable to some of the financial institutions with which we compete as a custodian or asset manager. we are further affected by other regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the basel iii capital and liquidity standards, including proposed revisions to the u.s. leverage ratio and basel iii supplementary leverage ratio, and the alternative investment fund managers directive, or aifmd, and the european market infrastructure resolution, or emir, anticipated revisions to the european collective investment fund, or ucits, directive revisions to the markets in financial instruments directive and ongoing review of european union data protection regulation. proposed or potential regulations in the u.s. and europe with respect to money market funds, short-term wholesale funding, such as repurchase agreements or securities lending, or other shadow banking activities, could also adversely affect not only our own operations but also the operations of the clients to which we provide services. in europe, the aifmd increases the responsibilities and potential liabilities of custodians to certain of their clients for asset losses, and proposed revisions to the regulations affecting ucits are anticipated to incorporate similar, potentially more strict, standards. emir requires the reporting of all derivatives to a trade repository, the mandatory clearing of certain derivatives trades via a central counterparty and risk mitigation techniques for derivatives not cleared via a central counterparty. emir will impact our business activities, and increase costs, in various ways, some of which may be adverse. further, the european commission's proposal to introduce a proposed financial transaction tax or similar proposals elsewhere, if adopted, could materially effect the location and volume of financial transactions or otherwise alter the conduct of financial activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. the dodd-frank act and these other international regulatory changes could limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our regulatory capital requirements, alter the risk profile of certain of our core activities and impose additional costs on us, otherwise adversely affect our business, our consolidated results of operations or financial condition and have other negative consequences, including a reduction of our credit ratings. different countries may respond to the market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting manners, which could increase the cost of compliance for us. the evolving regulatory environment, including changes to existing regulations and the introduction of new regulations, may also contribute to decisions we may make to suspend, reduce or withdraw from existing businesses, activities or initiatives. in addition to potential lost revenue associated with any such suspensions, reductions or withdrawals, any such suspensions, reductions or withdrawals may result in significant restructuring or related costs or exposures. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits, delays, or difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals or restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation, which may significantly and adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. the willingness of regulatory authorities to impose meaningful sanctions, and the level of fines and penalties imposed in connection with regulatory violations, have increased substantially since the financial crisis. regulatory agencies may, at times, limit our ability to disclose their findings, related actions or remedial measures. similarly, many of our clients are subject to significant regulatory requirements and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. if we cause clients to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. 27 table of contents our calculations of credit, market and operational risk exposures, total risk-weighted assets and capital ratios for regulatory purposes depend on data inputs, formulae, models, correlations, and assumptions that are subject to changes over time, which changes, in addition to our consolidated financial results, could materially change our risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios from period to period. to calculate our credit, market and operational risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios for regulatory purposes, the basel iii capital and liquidity standards involve the use of current and historical data, including our own loss data and claims experience and similar information from other industry participants, market volatility measures, interest rates and spreads, asset valuations, credit exposures, and the creditworthiness of our counterparties. these calculations also involve the use of quantitative formulae, statistical models, historical correlations and significant assumptions. we refer to the data, formulae, models, correlations, and assumptions, as well as our related internal processes, as our advanced systems. while our advanced systems are generally quantitative in nature, significant components involve the exercise of judgment by us and by our regulators based, among other factors, on our and the financial services industry's evolving experience. any of these judgments or other elements of our advanced systems may not, individually or collectively, accurately represent or calculate the scenarios, circumstances, outputs or other results for which they are designed or intended. in addition, our advanced systems are subject to update and periodic revalidation in response to changes in our business activities and our historical experiences, forces and events experienced by the market broadly or by individual financial institutions, changes in regulations and regulatory interpretations and other factors, and are also subject to continuing regulatory review and approval. for example, a significant operational loss experienced by another financial institution, even if we do not experience a related loss, could result in a material change in our advanced systems and a corresponding material change in our risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios compared to prior periods. due to the influence of changes in our advanced systems, whether resulting from changes in data inputs, regulation or regulatory supervision or interpretation, state street-specific or more general market, or individual financial institution-specific, activities or experiences, or other updates or factors, we expect that our advanced systems and our credit, market and operational risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios calculated under the basel iii capital and liquidity standards will change, and may be volatile, over time, and that those latter changes or volatility could be material as calculated and measured from period to period. our businesses may be adversely affected by regulatory enforcement and litigation. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. these may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. in regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. from time to time, our clients, or the government on their or its own behalf, make claims and take legal action relating to, among other things, our performance of our fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. in any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation or on client demand for our products and services. in regulatory settlements since the financial crisis, the fines imposed by regulators have increased substantially and may exceed in some cases the profit earned or harm caused by the regulatory or other breach. we are currently subject to both regulatory inquiries and civil litigation with respect to the provision of foreign exchange execution services to institutional investors that are also custody clients. these regulatory matters and litigation have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which the relevant matter is resolved or an accrual is determined to be required, on our consolidated financial condition or on our reputation. the potential exposure from such matters, if any, is difficult to estimate because the basis on which some claims may be brought remains uncertain or the legal theories being applied are untested in the courts. for additional information concerning these matters, refer to the risk factor titled we face litigation and governmental and client inquiries in connection with our execution of indirect foreign exchange trades with custody clients; these issues have adversely affected our revenue from such trading and may cause our revenue from such trading to decline in the future. in many cases, we are required to self-report inappropriate or non-compliant conduct to the authorities, and our failure to do so may represent an independent regulatory violation. even when we promptly bring the matter to the attention of the appropriate authorities, we may nonetheless experience regulatory fines, liabilities to clients, harm to our reputation or other adverse effects in connection with self-reported matters. further, we may become subject to regulatory scrutiny, inquiries or investigations associated with broad, industry-wide concerns, and potentially client-related inquiries or claims, whether or not we engaged in the relevant 28 table of contents activities, and could experience associated increased costs or harm to our reputation. for example, we are a major foreign exchange dealer and also publish a commonly used foreign exchange benchmark. many participants in the foreign exchange industry are presently experiencing increased regulatory scrutiny concerning alleged potential manipulation in foreign exchange markets, particularly with respect to published benchmarks. this industry scrutiny may result in the assertion of claims against us, regulatory actions or investigations or increased regulation, which may decrease the volume and profitability of our foreign exchange trading activities. our revenue worldwide from direct foreign exchange sales and trading services totaled $304 million in 2013, $263 million in 2012 and $352 million in 2011. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending or potential matter or, if determined adversely against us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable and estimable loss contingencies. as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements, judgments or regulatory fines may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure. the resolution of certain pending or potential legal or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which the relevant matter is resolved or an accrual is determined to be required, on our consolidated financial condition or on our reputation. we face litigation and governmental and client inquiries in connection with our execution of indirect foreign exchange trades with custody clients; these issues have adversely affected our revenue from such trading and may cause our revenue from such trading to decline in the future. our custody clients are not required to execute foreign exchange transactions with us. to the extent they execute foreign exchange trades with us, they generally execute a greater volume using our direct methods of execution at negotiated rates or spreads than they execute using our indirect methods at rates we establish. where our clients or their investment managers choose to use our indirect foreign exchange execution methods, generally they elect that service for trades of smaller size or for currencies where regulatory or operational requirements cause trading in such currencies to present greater operational risk and costs for them. given the nature of these trades and other features of our indirect foreign exchange service, we generally charge higher rates for indirect execution than we charge for other trades, including trades in the interbank currency market. in october 2009, the attorney general of the state of california commenced an action under the california false claims act and california business and professional code related to services state street provides to certain california state pension plans. the california attorney general asserts that the pricing of certain foreign exchange transactions for these pension plans was governed by the custody contracts for these plans and that our pricing was not consistent with the terms of those contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, state street made false claims and engaged in unfair competition. the attorney general asserts actual damages of approximately $100 million for periods from 2001 to 2009 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. this action is in the discovery phase. we provide custody and principal foreign exchange services to government pension plans in other jurisdictions. since the commencement of the litigation in california, attorneys general and other governmental authorities from a number of jurisdictions, as well as u.s. attorney's offices, the u.s. department of labor and the u.s. securities and exchange commission, have requested information or issued subpoenas in connection with inquiries into the pricing of our foreign exchange services. we continue to respond to such inquiries and subpoenas. given that many of these inquiries are ongoing, we can provide no assurance that litigation or regulatory proceedings will not be brought against us or as to the nature of the claims that might be alleged. such litigation or proceedings may be brought on theories similar to those advanced in california or washington or on alternative theories of liability. we offer indirect foreign exchange services such as those we offer to the california pension plans to a broad range of custody clients in the u.s. and internationally. we have responded and are responding to information requests from a number of clients concerning our indirect foreign exchange rates. in february 2011, a putative class action was filed in federal court in boston seeking unspecified damages, including treble damages, on behalf of all custodial clients that executed certain foreign exchange transactions with state street from 1998 to 2009. the putative class action alleges, among other things, that the rates at which state street executed foreign currency trades constituted an unfair and deceptive practice under massachusetts law and a breach of the duty of loyalty. two other putative class actions are currently pending in federal court in boston alleging various violations of erisa on behalf of all erisa plans custodied with us that executed indirect foreign exchange transactions with state street from 1998 onward. the complaints allege that state street caused class members to pay unfair and 29 table of contents unreasonable rates for indirect foreign exchange transactions with state street. the complaints seek unspecified damages, disgorgement of profits, and other equitable relief. we cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceedings, or whether other proceedings might be commenced against us by clients or government authorities. for example, the new york attorney general and the united states attorney for the southern district of new york, each of which has brought indirect foreign exchange-related legal proceedings against one of our competitors, have made inquiries to us about our indirect foreign exchange execution methods. we expect that plaintiffs will seek to recover their share of all or a portion of the revenue that we have recorded from providing indirect foreign exchange services. the following table summarizes our estimated total revenue worldwide from indirect foreign exchange trading services for the years ended december 31 : (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 revenue from indirect foreign exchange trading $ 285 $ 248 $ 331 $ 336 $ 369 $ 462 we believe that the amount of our revenue from such services has been of a similar or lesser order of magnitude for many years prior to 2008. our revenue calculations related to indirect foreign exchange services reflect a judgment concerning the relationship between the rates we charge for indirect foreign exchange execution and indicative interbank market rates near in time to execution. our revenue from foreign exchange trading generally depends on the difference between the rates we set for indirect trades and indicative interbank market rates on the date trades settle. we cannot predict the outcome of any pending matters or whether a court, in the event of an adverse resolution, would consider our revenue to be the appropriate measure of damages. the resolution of pending matters or the resolution of any that may be initiated, filed or threatened could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, our consolidated financial condition and our reputation. the heightened regulatory and media scrutiny on indirect foreign exchange services has resulted in pressure on our pricing of these services, and clients have reduced the volume of trades executed through these services, each of which has had and is anticipated to continue to have an adverse impact on our revenue from, and the profitability of, these services. some custody clients or their investment managers have elected to change the manner in which they execute foreign exchange with us or have decided not to use our foreign exchange execution methods. we do not expect the market, regulatory and other pressures on our indirect foreign exchange services to decrease in 2014. we intend to continue to offer our custody clients a range of execution options for their foreign exchange needs; however, the range of services, costs and profitability vary by service options. we cannot provide assurance that clients or investment managers who choose to use less or none of our indirect foreign exchange services, or to use alternatives to our existing indirect foreign exchange services, will choose the alternatives offered by us. accordingly, our revenue earned from providing these services may decline further. we may not be successful in implementing our announced multi-year program to transform our operating model or our other strategic initiatives. in order to maintain and grow our business, we must continuously make strategic decisions about our current and future business plans, including plans to target cost initiatives and enhance operational efficiencies, our plans for entering or exiting business lines or geographic markets, our plans for acquiring or disposing of businesses and our plans to build new systems and other infrastructure, to engage third-party service providers and to address staffing needs. in late 2010, we announced a multi-year program to enhance service excellence and innovation, increase efficiencies and position us for accelerated growth. we continued our implementation of this program during 2013, and it is targeted for completion at the end of 2014. operating model transformations, including this program, entail significant risks. the program, and any future strategic or business plan we implement, may prove to be inadequate for the achievement of the stated objectives, may result in increased or unanticipated costs or risks, may result in earnings volatility, may take longer than anticipated to implement, may involve elements reliant on the performance of third parties and may not be successfully implemented. in particular, elements of the program include investment in new technologies, such as private processing clouds, to increase global computing capabilities, and also the development of new, and the evolution of existing, methods and tools to accelerate the pace of innovation, the introduction of new services and solutions, the use of service providers associated with components of our technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support, and the enhancement of the security of our systems. the transition to new operating models and 30 table of contents technology infrastructure may cause disruptions in our relationships with clients, employees and vendors and may present other unanticipated technical, operational or other hurdles. the success of the program and our other strategic plans could also be affected by market disruptions and unanticipated changes in the overall market for financial services and the global economy. we also may not be able to abandon or alter these plans without significant loss, as the implementation of our decisions may involve significant capital outlays, often far in advance of when we expect to generate any related revenues or cost expectations. accordingly, our business, our consolidated results of operations and our consolidated financial condition may be adversely affected by any failure or delay in our strategic decisions, including the program or elements thereof. for additional information about the program, see consolidated results of operations - expenses in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k. we may incur losses arising from our investments in sponsored investment funds, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the periods incurred. in the normal course of business, we manage various types of sponsored investment funds through ssga. the services we provide to these sponsored investment funds generate management fee revenue, as well as servicing fees from our other businesses. from time to time, we may invest cash in the funds, which we refer to as seed capital, in order for the funds to establish a performance history for newly launched strategies. these funds may meet the definition of variable interest entities, as defined by gaap, and if we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary of these funds, we include them in our consolidated financial statements. the funds follow specialized investment company accounting rules which prescribe fair value for the underlying investment securities held by the funds. in the aggregate, we expect any financial losses that we realize over time from these seed investments to be limited to the actual fair value of the amount invested in the consolidated fund, which is based on the fair value of the underling investment securities held by the funds. however, in the event of a fund wind-down, gross gains and losses of the fund may be recognized for financial accounting purposes in different periods during the time the fund is consolidated but not wholly owned. although we expect the actual economic loss to be limited to the amount invested, our losses in any period for financial accounting purposes could exceed the value of our economic interests in the fund and could exceed the value of our initial seed capital investment. the net assets of any consolidated fund are solely available to settle the liabilities of the fund and to settle any investors' ownership redemption requests, including any seed capital invested in the fund by state street. we are not contractually required to provide financial or any other support to any of our sponsored investment funds and are subject to regulators that prohibit or limit our ability to do so. in addition, neither creditors nor equity investors in the sponsored investment funds have any recourse to state street's general credit. in instances where we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the sponsored investment fund, we do not include the funds in our consolidated financial statements. our risk of loss associated with these unconsolidated funds primarily represents our seed capital investment, which could become realized as a result of poor investment performance. however, the amount of loss we may recognize during any period would be limited to the carrying amount of our investment. our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our clients incur substantial losses in investment pools in which we act as agent or are restricted in redeeming their interests in these investment pools. we manage assets on behalf of clients in several forms, including in collective investment pools, money market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term investment funds. in addition to the impact on the market value of client portfolios, at various times since 2007, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected the investment performance of certain of our products and our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from our pooled investment vehicles. our management of collective investment pools on behalf of clients exposes us to reputational risk and, in some cases, operational losses. if our clients incur substantial losses in these pools, particularly in money market funds (where there is a general market expectation that net asset value will not drop below $1.00 per share) or other constant-net-asset-value products, receive redemptions as in-kind distributions rather than in cash, or experience significant under-performance relative to the market or our competitors' products, our reputation could be significantly harmed, which harm could significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple investment pools to achieve scale, we face the risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in the aggregate. 31 table of contents within our asset management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds, that generally offer our clients the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally daily or monthly. this feature requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably anticipated liquidity requirements of our clients. the importance of maintaining liquidity varies by product type, but it is a particularly important feature in money market funds and other products designed to maintain a constant net asset value of $1.00. during the market disruption that accelerated following the bankruptcy of lehman brothers, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short- and long-term fixed-income securities, declined dramatically, and providing liquidity to meet all client demands in these investment pools without adversely affecting the return to non-withdrawing clients became more difficult. for clients that have invested directly or indirectly in certain of the collateral pools and have sought to terminate their participation in lending programs, we have required, in accordance with the applicable client arrangements, that these withdrawals from the collateral pools take the form of partial in-kind distributions of securities. in the case of ssga funds that engage in securities lending, we implemented limitations, which were terminated in 2010, on the portion of an investor's interest in such fund that may be withdrawn during any month. if higher than normal demands for liquidity from our clients were to return to post-lehman-brothers-bankruptcy levels or increase, managing the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools could become more difficult. if such liquidity problems were to recur, our relationships with our clients may be adversely affected, and, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to consolidate the investment pools into our consolidated statement of condition; levels of redemption activity could increase; and our consolidated results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected. in addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and selling the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, if at all, may then be difficult. in 2008, we imposed restrictions on cash redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, as the per-unit market value of those funds' assets had declined below the constant $1.00 the funds employ to effect purchase and redemption transactions. both the decline of the funds' net asset value below $1.00 and the imposition of restrictions on redemptions had a significant client, reputational and regulatory impact on us, and the recurrence of such or similar circumstances in the future could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. in december 2010, in order to increase participants' control over the degree of their participation in the lending program, we divided certain agency lending collateral pools into liquidity pools, from which clients could obtain cash redemptions, and duration pools, which are restricted and operate as liquidating accounts. we believe that our practice of effecting purchases and redemptions of units of the collateral pools, and other constant-net-asset-value products, at $1.00 per unit, notwithstanding that the underlying portfolios have a market value of less than $1.00 per unit, complied and continue to comply with the terms of our unregistered cash collateral pools and was in the best interests of participants in the agency lending program. participants in the agency lending program who received units of the duration pool, or who previously received in-kind redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, could seek to assert claims against us in connection with either their loss of liquidity or unrealized mark-to-market losses. if such claims were successfully asserted, such a resolution could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations in future periods. while it is currently not our intention, and we do not have contractual or other obligations to do so, we have in the past guaranteed, and may in the future guarantee, liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a fund or otherwise take actions to mitigate the impact of market conditions on our clients and if permitted by applicable laws. making a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own consolidated liquidity and financial condition. because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity or other demands of our clients. the extreme volatility in the equity markets has led to the potential for the return on passive and quantitative products to deviate from their target returns. any decision by us to provide financial support to an investment pool to support our reputation in circumstances where we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so could result in the recognition of significant losses, could adversely affect the regulatory view of our capital levels or plans and could, in certain situations, require us to consolidate the investment pools into our consolidated statement of condition. any failure of the pools to meet redemption requests, or under-performance of our pools relative to similar products offered by our competitors, could harm our business and our reputation. 32 table of contents the potential reputational impact from any decision to support or not to support a fund, and from restrictions on redemptions, is most acute in connection with money market funds and other cash products that employ a constant net asset value of $1.00 for purposes of effecting subscriptions and redemptions. the continued use of constant-net-asset-value funds, such as money market funds, or the imposition of further conditions on the offering of such funds, is currently under active consideration in both the u.s. and europe. the adoption of certain of the proposals under discussion could expose us to increased risk of loss or could make such products less attractive, potentially affecting our revenue from cash pools that we manage or service. our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. our relationship with many of our clients is predicated on our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. adverse publicity, regulatory actions or fines, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet client expectations or fiduciary or other obligations could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain clients or our sources of funding for the same or other businesses. for example, as discussed earlier in this risk factors section, we have experienced adverse publicity with respect to our indirect foreign exchange services, and this adverse publicity has contributed to a shift of client volume to other foreign exchange execution methods. similarly, as discussed earlier in this risk factors section, regulatory and reputational issues in our transition management business in the u.k. in 2010 and 2011 adversely affected our revenue from that business in 2012 and 2013. preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems, procedures and controls that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and client expectations. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. we may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, foreign exchange risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. we have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. while we currently believe that our risk management process is effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the internal and external, including service provider, risks in our various businesses. risks that individuals, either employees or contractors, consciously circumvent established control mechanisms to, for example, exceed trading or investment management limitations, or commit fraud, are particularly challenging to manage through a control framework. the financial and reputational impact of control failures can be significant. persistent or repeated issues with respect to controls may raise concerns among regulators regarding our culture, governance and control environment. while we seek to contractually limit our financial exposure to operational risk, the degree of protection that we are able to achieve varies, and our potential exposure may be greater than the revenue we anticipate that we will earn from the client relationship. in addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. we may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our businesses or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. if our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, regulatory requirements, our businesses, our counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations. operational risk is inherent in all of our business activities. as a leading provider of services to institutional investors, we provide a broad array of services, including research, investment management, trading services and investment servicing that expose us to operational risk. in addition, these services generate a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements, many of which involve the opportunity for human, systems or process errors. we face the risk that the control policies, procedures and systems we have established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, will be inadequate or will become outdated. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervision or monitoring mechanisms, service-provider processes or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our future consolidated results of operations. given the volume of transactions we process on a daily basis, operational losses represent a potentially significant financial risk for our business. operational errors that result in us remitting funds to a failing or bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses. we may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partly beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. in addition, our clients, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the clients, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated 33 table of contents results of operations could be negatively affected. when we record balance sheet accruals for probable and estimable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any accruals we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. cost shifting to non-u.s. jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings. we actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes and business support functions to lower-cost geographic locations, such as poland, india and china. we may accomplish this shift by establishing operations in lower-cost locations, by outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions or through joint ventures. this effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these operations. in addition, we are exposed to the relevant macroeconomic, political and similar risks generally involved in doing business in those jurisdictions. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. during periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exist with respect to maintaining a high level of service delivery. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be affected by regulatory and client acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. in addition, the financial benefits of lower-cost locations may diminish over time. development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. the introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and resources, including regulatory approvals. substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our clients and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely manner at competitive prices. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives, vendor relationships and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our clients. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, as well as on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure, both internal and external, to, among other things, record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions and other data, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets and jurisdictions. during 2012 and 2013, several financial services firms suffered successful cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data and reputational harm. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could adversely affect our ability to process transactions, provide services or maintain systems availability, maintain compliance and internal controls or otherwise appropriately conduct our business activities. for example, there could be sudden increases in transaction volumes, electrical or telecommunications outages, cyber-attacks or employee or contractor error or malfeasance. in addition, updates to these systems and facilities often involve implementation, integration and security risks. the third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. 34 table of contents in particular, we, like other financial services firms, will continue to face increasing cyber-security threats, including computer viruses, malicious code, distributed denial of service attacks, phishing attacks, information security breaches or employee or contractor error or malfeasance that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our, our clients' or other parties' confidential, proprietary or other information or otherwise disrupt, compromise or damage our or our clients' or other parties' business assets, operations and activities. we therefore could experience significant related costs and exposures, including lost or constrained ability to provide our services or maintain systems availability to clients, regulatory inquiries, enforcements, actions and fines, loss of confidential, personal or proprietary information, litigation, damage to our reputation or property and enhanced competition. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects. our businesses and relationships with clients are dependent on our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our clients' trade secrets and confidential information (including client transactional data and personal data about our employees, our clients and our clients' clients). unauthorized access to such information may occur, resulting in its theft, loss or other misappropriation. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, our relationships with our clients and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries, enforcement and fines, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we are subject to claims of third-party intellectual property rights. our potential inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively may allow competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. to the extent that we do not protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, other parties, including former employees, with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. in addition, we may infringe on claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. we may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. third-party intellectual rights, valid or not, may also impede our deployment of the full scope of our products and service capabilities in all jurisdictions in which we operate or market our products and services. the intellectual property of an acquired business may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. however, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent on licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated. competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of challenges associated with evolving compensation restrictions applicable, or which may become applicable, to banks and some asset managers and that potentially are not applicable to other financial services firms in all jurisdictions. the unexpected loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, operations and clients, their years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely affect our clients' perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates or to provide other services to them. we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. the markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. these markets are changing as a result of new and evolving laws and regulations applicable to financial services institutions. regulatory-driven market changes cannot always be anticipated, and may adversely affect the demand for, and profitability of, the products and services that we offer. in addition, new market entrants and competitors may address changes in the markets more rapidly than we do, or may provide clients with a more attractive offering of products and services, adversely affecting our business. we have also experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker/dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. further consolidation within the 35 table of contents financial services industry could also pose challenges to us in the markets we serve, including potentially increased downward pricing pressure across our businesses. some of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. these competitors are in some instances significant clients, and the retention of these clients involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality and intra-company confidentiality. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our client after a short notice period. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, client pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures pose risks for our business. as part of our business strategy, we acquire complementary businesses and technologies, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and divest portions of our business. in 2013, we continued the integration of prior acquisitions, including our 2012 acquisition of goldman sachs administration services, or gsas. we undertake transactions of varying sizes to, among other reasons, expand our geographic footprint, access new clients, technologies or services, develop closer or more collaborative relationships with our business partners, efficiently deploy capital or leverage cost savings or other business or financial opportunities. we may not achieve the expected benefits of these transactions, which could result in increased costs, lowered revenues, ineffective deployment of capital, regulatory concerns, exit costs or diminished competitive position or reputation. transactions of this nature also involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, managerial, operational, cultural and employment challenges, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. for example, the businesses that we acquire or our strategic alliances or joint ventures may under-perform relative to the price paid or the resources committed by us; we may not achieve anticipated cost savings; or we may otherwise be adversely affected by acquisition-related charges. further, past acquisitions, including our acquisition of gsas, have resulted in the recognition of goodwill and other significant intangible assets in our consolidated statement of condition. these assets are not eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital under current requirements and proposals. in addition, we may be required to record impairment in our consolidated statement of income in future periods if we determine that the value of these assets has declined. through our acquisitions or joint ventures, we may also assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. while in most of our transactions we seek to mitigate these risks through, among other things, due diligence and indemnification provisions, these or other risk-mitigating provisions we put in place may not be sufficient to address these liabilities and contingencies. various regulatory approvals or consents are generally required prior to closing of these transactions, which may include approvals of the federal reserve and other domestic and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms that materially affect the terms of the transaction or our ability to capture some of the opportunities presented by the transaction. any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction. acquisitions or joint ventures we announce may not be completed if we do not receive the required regulatory approvals, if regulatory approvals are significantly delayed or if other closing conditions are not satisfied. the integration of our acquisitions results in risks to our business and other uncertainties. the integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. integration activities are complicated and time consuming and can involve significant unforeseen costs. we may not be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings as anticipated, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related revenue growth or cost savings. we also face the risk of being unable to retain, or cross-sell our products or services to, the clients of acquired companies or joint ventures. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in client dissatisfaction and defection. clients of investment servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these clients or a significant reduction in the revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, could adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions or cause impairment to goodwill and other intangibles. 36 table of contents with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients or employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. long-term contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk. we enter into long-term contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing services to clients, primarily for conversions, including services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. we also enter into longer-term arrangements with respect to custody, fund administration and depository services. these arrangements generally set forth our fee schedule for the term of the contract and, absent a change in service requirements, do not permit us to re-price the contract for changes in our costs or for market pricing. the long-term contracts for these relationships require, in some cases, considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. the profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services, efficiently assume our contractual responsibilities in a timely manner, control our costs and maintain the relationship with the client for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. our estimate of the profitability of these arrangements can be adversely affected by declines in the assets under the clients' management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or client-specific issues. in addition, the profitability of these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross-sell additional services to these clients, and we may be unable to do so. performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. our failure to meet specified service levels or implementation timelines may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the client. if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see our revenue decline. changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. new accounting standards, or changes to existing accounting standards, resulting both from initiatives of the financial accounting standards board, or fasb, or their convergence efforts with the international accounting standards board, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the fasb or the sec or otherwise reflected in gaap, potentially could affect our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. these changes are difficult to predict, and can materially affect how we record and report our consolidated results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for prior periods. changes in tax laws, rules or regulations, challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, and changes in the composition of our pre-tax earnings may increase our effective tax rate and thus adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. our businesses can be directly or indirectly affected by new tax legislation, the expiration of existing tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. the u.s. federal government, massachusetts, other state governments and jurisdictions around the world continue to review proposals to amend tax laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business that could have a negative impact on our after-tax earnings. in addition, the expiration at the end of 2013 of certain u.s. tax laws that favorably affected the taxation of our non-u.s. operations could begin to affect the results of those operations in 2014. although these u.s. tax laws have previously expired and been re-enacted, it is uncertain whether they will be re-enacted again. in the normal course of our business, we are subject to review by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities. a review by any such authority could result in an increase in our recorded tax liability. in addition to the aforementioned risks, our effective tax rate is dependent on the nature and geographic composition of our pre-tax earnings and could be negatively affected by changes in these factors. the quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in inadequate risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions. 37 table of contents we use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our businesses. as an input to our overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, operational risk, interest-rate risk and business risk we face. during the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we sometimes use models to measure the value of asset and liability positions for which reliable market prices are not available. we also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading activities, hedging, asset-and-liability management and whether to change business strategy. in all of these uses, errors in the underlying model or model assumptions, or inadequate model assumptions, could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences. because of our widespread usage of models, potential errors in models pose an ongoing risk to us. additionally, we may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations on which we rely may not continue to be relevant. consequently, the measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. while our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have inadequate capital to conduct our businesses. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen events, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the emergence of a pandemic or acts of embezzlement. acts of terrorism, natural disasters or the emergence of a pandemic could significantly affect our business. we have instituted disaster recovery and continuity plans to address risks from terrorism, natural disasters and pandemic; however, anticipating or addressing all potential contingencies is not possible for events of this nature. acts of terrorism, either targeted or broad in scope, or natural disasters could damage our physical facilities, harm our employees and disrupt our operations. a pandemic, or concern about a possible pandemic, could lead to operational difficulties and impair our ability to manage our business. acts of terrorism, natural disasters and pandemics could also negatively affect our clients, counterparties and service providers, as well as result in disruptions in general economic activity and the financial markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under financial condition - risk management - market risk in management's discussion and analysis, included under item 7 of this form 10-k, is incorporated by reference herein.risk factors forward-looking statements this form 10-k, as well as other reports submitted by us under the securities exchange act of 1934, registration statements filed by us under the securities act of 1933, our annual report to shareholders and other public statements we may make, contain statements (including statements in the management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of u.s. securities laws, including statements about our goals and expectations regarding our business, financial and capital condition, results of operations, 15 table of contents strategies, financial portfolio performance, dividend and stock purchase programs, expected outcomes of legal proceedings, market growth, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures and new technologies, services and opportunities, as well as regarding industry, regulatory, economic and market trends, initiatives and developments, the business environment and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. terminology such as plan, expect, intend, objective, forecast, outlook, believe, anticipate, estimate, seek, may, will, trend, target, strategy and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management's expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of future results. management's expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, regulatory environment and the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to state street and its subsidiaries, including state street bank. factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based cannot be foreseen with certainty and include, but are not limited to: the financial strength and continuing viability of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business and to which we have investment, credit or financial exposure, including, for example, the direct and indirect effects on counterparties of the sovereign-debt risks in the u.s., europe and other regions; increases in the volatility of, or declines in the level of, our net interest revenue, changes in the composition or valuation of the assets recorded in our consolidated statement of condition (and our ability to measure the fair value of investment securities) and the possibility that we may change the manner in which we fund those assets; the liquidity of the u.s. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities and inter-bank credits, and the liquidity requirements of our clients; the level and volatility of interest rates, the valuation of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which we record revenue or accrue expenses and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; the credit quality, credit-agency ratings and fair values of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss in our consolidated statement of income; our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding, the relative portion of our deposits that are determined to be operational under regulatory guidelines and our ability to deploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with our liquidity requirements and risk profile; the manner and timing with which the federal reserve and other u.s. and foreign regulators implement changes to the regulatory framework applicable to our operations, including implementation of the dodd-frank act, the basel iii final rule and european legislation (such as the alternative investment fund managers directive and undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities directives); among other consequences, these regulatory changes impact the levels of regulatory capital we must maintain, acceptable levels of credit exposure to third parties, margin requirements applicable to derivatives, and restrictions on banking and financial activities. in addition, our regulatory posture and related expenses have been and will continue to be affected by changes in regulatory expectations for global systemically important financial institutions applicable to, among other things, risk management, capital planning and compliance programs, and changes in governmental enforcement approaches to perceived failures to comply with regulatory or legal obligations; adverse changes in the regulatory ratios that we are required or will be required to meet, whether arising under the dodd-frank act or the basel iii final rule, or due to changes in regulatory positions, practices or regulations in jurisdictions in which we engage in banking activities, including changes in internal or external data, formulae, models, assumptions 16 table of contents or other advanced systems used in the calculation of our capital ratios that cause changes in those ratios as they are measured from period to period; increasing requirements to obtain the prior approval of the federal reserve or our other u.s. and non-u.s. regulators for the use, allocation or distribution of our capital or other specific capital actions or programs, including acquisitions, dividends and stock purchases, without which our growth plans, distributions to shareholders, share repurchase programs or other capital initiatives may be restricted; changes in law or regulation, or the enforcement of law or regulation, that may adversely affect our business activities or those of our clients or our counterparties, and the products or services that we sell, including additional or increased taxes or assessments thereon, capital adequacy requirements, margin requirements and changes that expose us to risks related to the adequacy of our controls or compliance programs; financial market disruptions or economic recession, whether in the u.s., europe, asia or other regions; our ability to promote a strong culture of risk management, operating controls, compliance oversight and governance that meet our expectations and those of our clients and our regulators; the results of, and costs associated with, governmental or regulatory inquiries and investigations, litigation and similar claims, disputes, or proceedings; the potential for losses arising from our investments in sponsored investment funds; the possibility that our clients will incur substantial losses in investment pools for which we act as agent, and the possibility of significant reductions in the liquidity or valuation of assets underlying those pools; our ability to anticipate and manage the level and timing of redemptions and withdrawals from our collateral pools and other collective investment products; the credit agency ratings of our debt and depository obligations and investor and client perceptions of our financial strength; adverse publicity, whether specific to state street or regarding other industry participants or industry-wide factors, or other reputational harm; our ability to control operational risks, data security breach risks and outsourcing risks, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will prove insufficient, fail or be circumvented; our ability to expand our use of technology to enhance the efficiency, accuracy and reliability of our operations and our dependencies on information technology and our ability to control related risks, including cyber-crime and other threats to our information technology infrastructure and systems and their effective operation both independently and with external systems, and complexities and costs of protecting the security of our systems and data; our ability to grow revenue, manage expenses, attract and retain highly skilled people and raise the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements and expectations; changes or potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to regulatory and technological changes, the effects of industry consolidation and perceptions of state street as a suitable service provider or counterparty; changes or potential changes in the amount of compensation we receive from clients for our services, and the mix of services provided by us that clients choose; our ability to complete acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures, including the ability to obtain regulatory approvals, the ability to arrange financing as required and the ability to satisfy closing conditions; the risks that our acquired businesses and joint ventures will not achieve their anticipated financial and operational benefits or will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will take longer than anticipated, that expected synergies will not be achieved or unexpected negative synergies or liabilities will be experienced, that client and deposit retention goals will not be met, that other regulatory or operational challenges will be experienced, and that disruptions from the transaction will harm our relationships with our clients, our employees or regulators; our ability to recognize emerging needs of our clients and to develop products that are responsive to such trends and profitable to 17 table of contents us, the performance of and demand for the products and services we offer, and the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk; changes in accounting standards and practices; and changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that affect the amount of taxes due. actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this item 1a risk factors and elsewhere in this form 10-k (including in the management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k) or disclosed in our sec filings. forward-looking statements should not be relied on as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the time this form 10-k is filed with the sec. we undertake no obligation to revise our forward-looking statements after the time they are made. the factors discussed in this item 1a are not intended to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. we cannot anticipate all developments that may adversely affect our business or operations or our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis on which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our sec filings, including our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934, in particular our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, or registration statements filed under the securities act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov or on the investor relations section of our corporate website at www.statestreet.com . risk factors in the normal course of our business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. the following is a discussion of various risk factors applicable to state street. additional information about our risk management framework is included under risk management in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k. additional risks beyond those described in management's discussion and analysis or in the following discussion may be inherent in our activities or operations as currently conducted, or as we may conduct them in the future, or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. credit and counterparty, liquidity and market risks we assume significant credit risk to counterparties, many of which are major financial institutions. these financial institutions and other counterparties may also have substantial financial dependencies with other financial institutions and sovereign entities. this credit exposure and concentration could expose us to financial loss. the financial markets are characterized by extensive interdependencies among numerous parties, including banks, central banks, broker/dealers, insurance companies and other financial institutions. these financial institutions also include collective investment funds, such as mutual funds, ucits and hedge funds that share these interdependencies. many financial institutions, including collective investment funds also hold, or are exposed to, loans, sovereign debt, fixed-income securities, derivatives, counterparty and other forms of credit risk in amounts that are material to their financial condition. as a result of our own business practices and these interdependencies, we and many of our clients have concentrated counterparty exposure to other financial institutions and collective investment funds, particularly large and complex institutions, sovereign issuers, mutual funds and ucits and hedge funds. although we have procedures for monitoring both individual and aggregate counterparty risk, significant individual and aggregate counterparty exposure is inherent in our business, as our focus is on servicing large institutional investors . in the normal course of our business, we assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or group level. such concentrations may be material and can often exceed 10% of our consolidated total shareholders' equity. our material counterparty exposures change daily, and the counterparties or groups of related counterparties to which our risk exposure exceeds 18 table of contents 10% of our consolidated total shareholders' equity are also variable during any reported period; however, our largest exposures tend to be to other financial institutions. concentration of counterparty exposure presents significant risks to us and to our clients because the failure or perceived weakness of our counterparties (or in some cases of our clients' counterparties) has the potential to expose us to risk of financial loss. changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions or sovereign issuers can occur rapidly, are often based on a variety of factors and are difficult to predict. since mid-2007, a variety of economic, market and other factors have contributed to many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, as reflected in the credit downgrades of numerous large u.s. and non-u.s. financial institutions in recent years. also, credit downgrades to several sovereign issuers (including the u.s., austria, france, greece, italy, the netherlands, portugal and spain) and other issuers have stressed the perceived creditworthiness of financial institutions, many of which invest in, accept collateral in the form of, or value other transactions based on the debt or other securities issued by sovereign or other issuers. unemployment levels and deflationary and recessionary pressures in key global economies, while other economies including the u.s. and u.k. appear to be experiencing improving economic conditions, have resulted in substantial easing of monetary policy in europe and japan which contributed to economic and market uncertainty, low interest rates and pressures on currency exchange rates in 2014 and will likely have similar impacts in 2015. substantial changes in commodity prices, particularly oil, and a slowing of demand in china, are also contributing to economic and market risks. further economic, political or market turmoil or developments may lead to stress on sovereign issuers, and increase the potential for sovereign defaults or restructurings, additional credit-rating downgrades or the departure of sovereign issuers from common currencies or economic unions. these same factors may contribute to increased risk of default or downgrading for financial and corporate issuers or other market risk associated with excess levels of liquidity. as a result, we may be exposed to increased counterparty risks, either resulting from our role as principal or because of commitments we make in our capacity as agent for some of our clients. the degree of client demand for short-term credit tends to increase during periods of market turbulence, which may expose us to further counterparty-related risks. for example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may experience significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news. our relationship with our clients and the nature of the settlement process for some types of payments may result in the extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. for some types of clients, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if the client experiences investment losses or other credit difficulties. in addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to concentrated credit risk at an industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. this concentration risk also applies to groups of unrelated counterparties that may have similar investment strategies involving one or more particular industries, regions, or other characteristics. these unrelated counterparties may concurrently experience adverse effects to their performance, liquidity or reputation due to events or other factors affecting such investment strategies. though potentially not material individually (relative to any one such counterparty), our aggregated credit exposures to such a group of counterparties could similarly expose us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. we are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties that are affiliated entities and may not be able in all circumstances to net exposures to the same legal entity across multiple products. as a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to an entity's affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. our use of unaffiliated subcustodians also exposes us to operational risk, credit risk and risks of the legal systems of the jurisdictions in which the subcustodians operate, each of which may be material. these risks are amplified due to changing regulatory requirements with respect to our financial exposures in the event those subcustodians are unable to return a client's assets. we are also exposed to settlement risks, particularly in our payments and foreign exchange activities. those activities may lead to losses in the event of a counterparty breach. due to our membership in several industry clearing or settlement exchanges, we may be required to guarantee obligations and liabilities, or provide financial support, in the event that other members do not honor their obligations or default. moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured, and when our exposure is secured, the realizable value of the collateral may have declined by the time we exercise our rights against that collateral. this risk may be particularly 19 table of contents acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily-impaired market. on behalf of clients enrolled in our securities lending program, we lend securities to banks, broker/dealers and other institutions. in most circumstances, we indemnify our clients for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. borrowers are generally required to provide collateral equal to a contractually-agreed percentage equal to or in excess of the fair value of the loaned securities. as the fair value of the loaned securities changes, additional collateral is provided by the borrower or collateral is returned to the borrower. in addition, our clients often purchase securities or other financial instruments from financial counterparties, including broker/dealers, under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. under these arrangements, the counterparty is obligated to repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the client at the same price (plus an agreed rate of return) at some point in the future. the value of the collateral is intended to exceed the counterparty's payment obligation, and collateral is adjusted daily to account for shortfall under, or excess over, the agreed-upon collateralization level. as with the securities lending program, we agree to indemnify our clients from any loss that would arise on a default by the counterparty under these repurchase arrangements if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or other financial assets held as collateral are less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the client's counterparty. in such instances of counterparty default, for both securities lending and repurchase agreements, we, rather than our client, are exposed to the risks associated with collateral value. we also engage in certain off-balance sheet activities that involve risks. for example, we provide benefit-responsive contracts, known as wraps, to defined contribution plans that offer a stable value option to their participants. during the financial crisis, the book value of obligations under many of these contracts exceeded the market value of the underlying portfolio holdings. concerns regarding the portfolio of investments protected by such contracts, or regarding the investment manager overseeing such an investment option, may result in redemption demands from stable value products covered by benefit-responsive contracts at a time when the portfolio's market value is less than its book value, potentially exposing us to risk of loss. similarly, we provide credit facilities in connection with the remarketing of u.s. municipal obligations, potentially exposing us to credit exposure to the municipalities issuing such bonds and to their increased liquidity demands. in the current economic environment, where municipalities are subject to increased investor concern, the risks associated with such businesses increase. further, our off-balance sheet activities also include our agreement, described above, to indemnify our clients for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. under evolving regulatory restrictions on credit exposure, which are anticipated to include broader or more prescriptive measures of credit exposure, we may be required to limit our exposures to specific issuers or groups, including financial institutions and sovereign issuers, to levels that we may currently exceed. these credit exposure restrictions under such evolving regulations may adversely affect our businesses, may require that we expand our credit exposure to a broader range of issuers, including issuers that represent increased credit risk and may require that we modify our operating models or the policies and practices we use to manage our consolidated statement of condition. although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our global treasury group, that, among other responsibilities, manages our investment portfolio, our currency trading business, our securities finance business, and our investment management business. given the limited number of strong counterparties in the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our clients' counterparty credit risk. our investment securities portfolio, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in interest rate, market and credit risks. our investment securities portfolio represented approximately 41% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2014 , and the gross interest revenue associated with our investment portfolio represented approximately 20% of our consolidated total gross revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014 and has represented as much as 30% of our consolidated gross revenue in the fiscal years since 2007. as such, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are materially exposed to the risks associated with our investment portfolio, including, without limitation, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit performance, credit ratings, our access to liquidity, foreign exchange markets, mark-to-market valuations, and our ability to profitably reinvest repayments of principal with respect to these securities. the low interest-rate environment that has persisted since the financial crisis began in mid-2007, and may continue in 2015 and beyond, limits our ability to achieve a net interest margin consistent with our historical averages. 20 table of contents our investment securities portfolio represents a greater proportion of our consolidated statement of condition and our loan and lease portfolios represent a smaller proportion (approximately 7% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2014 ), in comparison to many other major financial institutions. in some respects, the accounting and regulatory treatment of our investment securities portfolio may be less favorable to us than a more traditional held-for-investment lending portfolio. for example, under the u.s. basel iii final rule issued in july 2013, after-tax changes in the fair value of investment securities classified as available for sale are included in tier 1 capital. since loans held for investment are not subject to a fair-value accounting framework, changes in the fair value of loans (other than incurred credit losses) are not similarly included in the determination of tier 1 capital under the u.s. basel iii final rule. due to this differing treatment, we may experience increased variability in our tier 1 capital relative to other major financial institutions whose loan-and-lease portfolios represent a larger proportion of their consolidated total assets than ours. our investment portfolio continues to have significant concentrations in certain classes of securities, including agency and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities, and securities with concentrated exposure to consumers. these classes and types of securities experienced significant liquidity, valuation and credit quality deterioration during the financial disruption that began in mid-2007. we also hold non-u.s. mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities with exposures to european countries, whose sovereign-debt markets have experienced increased stress since 2011 and may continue to experience stress in the future. for further information, refer to the risk factor titled our businesses have significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. further, we hold a portfolio of u.s. state and municipal bonds. in view of the budget deficits that a number of states and municipalities currently face, the risks associated with this portfolio are significant. if market conditions similar to those experienced in 2007 and 2008 were to recur, our investment portfolio could experience a decline in liquidity and market value, regardless of our credit view of our portfolio holdings. for example, we recorded significant losses not related to credit in connection with the consolidation of our off-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper conduits in 2009 and the repositioning of our investment portfolio in 2010 with respect to these asset classes. in addition, in general, deterioration in credit quality, or changes in management's expectations regarding repayment timing or in management's investment intent to hold securities to maturity, in each case with respect to our portfolio holdings, could result in other-than-temporary impairment. similarly, if a material portion of our investment portfolio were to experience credit deterioration below investment grade, our capital ratios as calculated pursuant to the basel iii final rule could be adversely affected. this risk is greater with portfolios of investment securities than with loans or holdings of u.s. treasury securities . our investment portfolio is further subject to changes in both u.s. and non-u.s. (primarily in europe) interest rates, and could be negatively affected by changes in those rates, whether or not expected, particularly by a quicker-than-anticipated increase in interest rates or by monetary policy that results in persistently low or negative rates of interest. this has been the case, for example, with respect to recent ecb monetary policy, including negative interest rates in some jurisdictions, with associated negative effects on our net interest revenue and net interest margin. the effect on our net interest revenue has been exacerbated by the effects of the recent strong u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, particularly the euro. if ecb monetary policy continues to pressure european interest rates downward and the u.s. dollar remains strong or strengthens, the negative effects on our net interest revenue likely will continue or increase. our business activities expose us to interest-rate risk. in our business activities, we assume interest-rate risk by investing short-term deposits received from our clients in our investment portfolio of longer- and intermediate-term assets. our net interest revenue and net interest margin are affected by the levels of interest rates in global markets, changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. these factors are influenced, among other things, by a variety of economic and market forces and expectations, including monetary and other policies and activities of central banks, such as the federal reserve, that we do not control. our ability to anticipate changes in these factors or to hedge the related on- and off-balance sheet exposures can significantly influence the success of our asset-and-liability management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue and net interest margin. the impact of changes in interest rates and related factors will depend on the relative duration and fixed- 21 table of contents or floating-rate nature of our assets and liabilities. sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads generally have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. for additional information about the effects on interest rates on our business, refer to financial condition - market risk management - asset-and-liability management activities in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7 of this form 10-k . if we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our consolidated financial condition, including our regulatory capital ratios, our consolidated results of operations and our business prospects, could be adversely affected. liquidity management, including on an intra-day basis, is critical to the management of our consolidated statement of condition and to our ability to service our client base. we generally use our liquidity to: meet clients' demands for return of their deposits; extend credit to our clients in connection with our custody business; and fund the pool of long- and intermediate-term assets that are included in the investment securities carried in our consolidated statement of condition. because the demand for credit by our clients is difficult to predict and control, and may be at its peak at times of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment securities portfolio is longer than the contractual maturity of our client deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent on access to, various sources of short-term funding. during periods of market disruption, the level of client deposits held by us has in recent years tended to increase; however, since such deposits are considered to be transitory, we have historically deposited so-called excess deposits with u.s. and non-u.s. central banks and in other highly liquid but low-yielding instruments. these levels of excess client deposits, as a consequence, have increased our net interest revenue but have adversely affected our net interest margin. in managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is client deposits, which are predominantly transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based on a number of factors, including volume and volatility in global financial markets, the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these deposits and the perception of safety of these deposits or short-term obligations relative to alternative short-term investments available to our clients, including the capital markets. in addition, we may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or for which the clients participating in these products have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. these business activities include, among others, securities finance collateral pools, money market and other short-term investment funds and liquidity facilities utilized in connection with municipal bond programs. if clients demand a return of their cash or assets, particularly on limited notice, and these investment pools do not have the liquidity to support those demands, we could be forced to sell investment securities at unfavorable prices, damaging our reputation as an asset manager and potentially exposing us to claims related to our management of the pools. the availability and cost of credit in short-term markets are highly dependent on the markets' perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. our efforts to monitor and manage our liquidity risk, including on an intra-day basis, may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven reductions in liquidity. as a result of such events, among other things, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment securities portfolio, which, depending on market conditions, could result in a loss from such sales of investment securities being recorded in our consolidated statement of income. our business and capital-related activities, including our ability to return capital to shareholders and purchase our capital stock, may be adversely affected by our implementation of the revised regulatory capital and liquidity standards that we must meet under the basel iii final rule, the dodd-frank act and other regulatory initiatives, or in the event our capital plan or post-stress capital ratios are determined to be insufficient as a result of regulatory capital stress testing. the u.s. basel iii final rule replaced the basel i- and basel ii-based capital regulations. as a so-called advanced approaches banking organization, we became subject to the u.s. basel iii final rule on january 1, 2014. on january 1, 2015, the u.s. basel iii final rule replaced the existing basel i-based approach for calculating risk-weighted assets with the u.s. basel 22 table of contents iii standardized approach that, among other things, modifies certain existing risk weights and introduces new methods for calculating risk-weighted assets for certain types of assets and exposures. the final rule also revised the basel ii-based advanced approaches capital rules to implement basel iii and certain provisions of the dodd-frank act. on february 21, 2014, we were notified by the federal reserve that we had completed our parallel run period. consequently, since the second quarter of 2014, we are required to use the advanced approaches framework as provided in the federal reserve's july 2013 basel iii final rule in the determination of our risk-based capital requirements. the dodd-frank act applies a "capital floor" to advanced approaches banking organizations, such as state street and state street bank. as of january 1, 2015, the basel iii standardized approach acts as that capital floor. as a result, we are required to calculate our risk-based capital ratios under both the basel iii advanced approach and the basel iii standardized approach, and we are subject to the more stringent of the risk-based capital ratios calculated under the standardized approach and those calculated under the advanced approach in the assessment of our capital adequacy under the prompt corrective action framework. in implementing certain aspects of these capital regulations, we are making interpretations of the regulatory intent. the federal reserve may determine that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the advanced approaches capital rules and may require us to take certain actions to come into compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, our regulatory capital structure, our capital ratios or our financial performance, or otherwise restrict our growth plans or strategies. in addition, banking regulators could change the basel iii final rule or their interpretations as they apply to us, including changes to these standards or interpretations made in regulations implementing provisions of the dodd-frank act, which could adversely affect us and our ability to comply with the basel iii final rule. the u.s. basel iii final rule also contains additional new requirements, such as the slr and lcr, and further capital and liquidity requirements are under consideration by u.s. and international banking regulators, such as an nsfr, each of which has the potential to have significant effects on our capital and liquidity planning and activities. for example, the specification of the various elements of the u.s. lcr in the final rule, such as the eligibility of assets as high-quality liquid assets, the calculation of net outflows, including the treatment of operational deposits, and the timing of indeterminate maturities, could have a material effect on our business activities, including the management and composition of our investment securities portfolio and our ability to extend committed contingent credit facilities to our clients. the full effects of the basel iii final rule, and of other regulatory initiatives related to capital or liquidity, on state street and state street bank are therefore subject to further evaluation and also to further regulatory guidance, action or rule-making. as a g-sib, we generally expect to be held to the most stringent provisions under the u.s. basel iii final rule. for example, on december 9, 2014, the federal reserve issued a proposed rulemaking to establish a risk-based capital surcharge for u.s. g-sibs, such as state street. under the proposed rule, a g-sib's capital conservation buffer would be increased by the amount of the capital surcharge, using the higher surcharge as determined under two proposed methods. the first proposed method would consider a g-sib's size, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability, and complexity, whereas the second proposed method would replace substitutability with the use of short-term wholesale funding. if the rulemaking is finalized as proposed, the capital surcharge could be higher than the capital surcharge as determined under the framework proposed by the basel committee. under the proposed rule, the capital surcharge would be phased in beginning in 2016 and would become fully effective on january 1, 2019. state street is assessing the impact of the capital surcharge that would result if the proposed rule were implemented, and the effects of maintaining capital levels necessary to meet the surcharge could be material. in addition, in november 2014, the fsb published a consultative document with a proposal to enhance the tlac of g-sibs in resolution. the proposal calls for g-sibs to maintain tlac in excess of prescribed minimum thresholds. tlac would include regulatory capital and liabilities that can be written down or converted into equity during resolution. at a minimum, each g-sib would need to hold tlac in an amount equivalent to between 16% and 20% of its risk-weighted assets (plus applicable regulatory buffers) or at least twice the relevant basel iii tier 1 leverage ratio requirement. the proposal states that g-sibs will not be expected to meet tlac requirements before january 1, 2019. the fsb is expected to finalize its proposal in late 2015. u.s. banking regulators have not yet issued a proposal to implement tlac requirements. we are also required by the federal reserve to conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations and to develop an annual capital plan as part of the federal reserve's comprehensive capital 23 table of contents analysis and review process. that process is used by the federal reserve to evaluate our management of capital, the adequacy of our regulatory capital and the potential requirement for us to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums. the planned capital actions in our capital plan, including stock purchases and dividends, may be objected to by the federal reserve, potentially requiring us to revise our stress-testing or capital management approaches, resubmit our capital plan or postpone, cancel or alter our planned capital actions. in addition, changes in our business strategy, merger or acquisition activity or unanticipated uses of capital could result in a change in our capital plan and its associated capital actions, and may require resubmission of the capital plan to the federal reserve for its non-objection. we are also subject to asset quality reviews and stress testing by the ecb and may in the future to be subject to similar reviews and testing by other regulators. our implementation of the new capital and liquidity requirements, including our capital plan, may not be approved or may be objected to by the federal reserve, and the federal reserve may impose capital requirements in excess of our expectations or require us to maintain levels of liquidity that are higher than we may expect, and which may adversely affect our consolidated revenues. in the event that our implementation of new capital and liquidity requirements under the basel iii final rule, the dodd-frank act or other regulatory initiatives or our current capital structure are determined not to conform with current and future capital requirements, our ability to deploy capital in the operation of our business or our ability to distribute capital to shareholders or to purchase our capital stock may be constrained, and our business may be adversely affected. likewise, in the event that regulators in other jurisdictions in which we have banking subsidiaries determine that our capital or liquidity levels do not conform with current and future regulatory requirements, our ability to deploy capital, our levels of liquidity or our business operations in those jurisdictions may be adversely affected. for additional information about the above matters, refer to business - supervision and regulation - regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity standards included under item 1, and financial condition - capital in management's discussion and analysis included under item 7, of this form 10-k. fee revenue represents a significant majority of our consolidated revenue and is subject to decline, among other things, in the event of a reduction in, or changes to, the level or type of investment activity by our clients. we rely primarily on fee-based services to derive our revenue. this contrasts with commercial banks that may rely more heavily on interest-based sources of revenue, such as loans. during 2014, total fee revenue represented approximately 78% of our total consolidated revenue. fee revenue generated by our investment servicing and investment management businesses is augmented by trading services, securities finance and processing fees and other revenue. the level of these fees is influenced by several factors, including the mix and volume of our assets under custody and administration and our assets under management, the value and type of securities positions held (with respect to assets under custody) and the volume of portfolio transactions, and the types of products and services used by our clients. for example, reductions in the level of economic and capital markets activity tend to have a negative effect on our fee revenue, as these often result in reduced asset valuations and transaction volumes. they may also result in investor preference trends towards asset classes and markets deemed more secure, such as cash or non-emerging markets, with respect to which our fee rates are often lower. in addition, our clients include institutional investors, such as mutual funds, collective investment funds, hedge funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers. economic, market or other factors that reduce the level or rates of savings in or with those institutions, either through reductions in financial asset valuations or through changes in investor preferences, could materially reduce our fee revenue and have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. our businesses have significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. since 2011, greece, ireland, italy, portugal, spain and other european economies have experienced, and in the future may experience, difficulties in financing their deficits and servicing their outstanding debt. eurozone instability and sovereign debt concerns, and the downgraded credit ratings of associated sovereign debt and european financial institutions, have contributed to the volatility in the financial markets. this reduced confidence has led to support for greece, ireland, portugal, and spain by eurozone countries and the international monetary fund. the ecb has purchased european sovereign debt to support these markets and to weaken the euro relative to the currencies of significant trading 24 table of contents partners of the eurozone economy and, in the second half of 2014 , announced operational details of possible asset-backed securities and covered bond purchase programs. numerous european governments, have adopted austerity and other measures in an attempt to contain the spread of sovereign-debt concerns and overall slow economic growth. current political attitudes towards such economic support and the european union in these and other european countries appear to be diverging, creating the potential for an increasingly complex political environment in which actions to support european economies need to be resolved. in mid-2014 geopolitical pressure also rose due to the conflict between the ukraine and russia, with governments globally imposing trade restrictions which affected the global and european economy, the russian currency and russian financial markets and financial institutions. these political disagreements, along with the interdependencies among european economies and financial institutions and the substantial refinancing requirements of european sovereign issuers create ongoing concern regarding deflationary pressures in europe, persistent high levels of unemployment in certain countries and the stability of the euro, european financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. given the scope of our european operations, clients and counterparties, disruptions in the european financial markets, the failure to resolve fully and contain sovereign-debt concerns, continued recession in significant european economies, the possible attempt of a country to abandon the euro, the failure of a significant european financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the euro and the consequences of prolonged negative interest rates, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. recent conditions in the global economy and financial markets have adversely affected us, and they have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses. global credit and other financial markets have recently suffered from substantial volatility, illiquidity and disruption. the resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial stability of certain countries, and in the financial markets generally, have adversely affected our business, as well as the businesses of our clients and our significant counterparties. this environment, the potential for continuing or additional disruptions, and the regulatory and enforcement environment that has subsequently arisen have also affected overall confidence in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and pricing issues within the securities markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses, and have had an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. while global economies and financial markets showed some signs of stabilizing during 2013 and 2014, numerous global financial services firms and the sovereign debt of some nations experienced credit downgrades and recessionary issues. the occurrence of additional disruptions in global markets, continued uncertainty with respect to federal budget and federal debt-ceiling concerns in the u.s., continued economic or political uncertainty in europe, or the worsening of economic conditions, could further adversely affect our businesses and the financial services industry in general, and also increase the difficulty and unpredictability of aligning our business strategies, our infrastructure and our operating costs in light of current and future market and economic conditions. market disruptions can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations if the value of assets under custody, administration or management decline, while the costs of providing the related services remain constant due to the high fixed costs associated with this business. these factors can reduce the profitability of our asset-based fee revenue and could also adversely affect our transaction-based revenue, such as revenues from securities finance and foreign exchange activities, and the volume of transactions that we execute for or with our clients. further, the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. in general, increased currency volatility tends to increase our market risk but also increases our foreign exchange revenue. conversely, periods of lower currency volatility tend to decrease our market risk but also decrease our foreign exchange revenue. in addition, as our business grows globally and a significant percentage of our revenue is earned (and of our expenses paid) in currencies other than u.s. dollars, our exposure to foreign currency volatility could affect our levels of consolidated revenue, our consolidated expenses and our consolidated results of operations, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations and our investment portfolio holdings. for example, during the second half of 2014, the effects of a stronger u.s. dollar, particularly relative to the euro, reduced our servicing fee and management fee revenue and also reduced our expenses. the extent to which changes in the strength of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies 25 table of contents affects our consolidated results of operations, including the degree of any offset between increases or decreases to both revenue and expenses, will depend upon the nature and scope of our operations and activities in the relevant jurisdictions during the relevant periods, which may vary from period to period. as our product offerings expand, in part as we seek to take advantage of perceived opportunities arising under various regulatory reforms and resulting market changes, the degree of our exposure to various market and credit risks will evolve, potentially resulting in greater revenue volatility. we also will need to make additional investments to develop the operational infrastructure and to enhance our compliance and risk management capabilities to support these businesses, which may increase the operating expenses of such businesses or, if our risk management resources fail to keep pace with product expansion, result in increased risk of loss from such businesses. we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. we may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings in response to regulatory changes, including capital rules, or for other purposes, including financing acquisitions and joint ventures. however, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. in the event of rising interest rates, disruptions in financial markets, negative perceptions of our business or our financial strength, or other factors that would increase our cost of borrowing, we cannot be sure of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. any diminished ability to raise additional capital, if needed, could adversely affect our business and our ability to implement our business plan, capital plan and strategic goals, including the financing of acquisitions and joint ventures. any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm. major independent rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. we anticipate that the rating agencies will review our ratings regularly based on our consolidated results of operations and developments in our businesses. one or more of the major independent credit rating agencies have in the past downgraded, and may in the future downgrade, our credit ratings, or have negatively revised their outlook for our credit ratings. in november 2013, moody's investors service downgraded the long-term senior and subordinated debt ratings for state street bank. the current market environment and our exposure to financial institutions and other counterparties, including sovereign entities, increase the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to maintain our current credit ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. a failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in various products. additionally, our counterparties, as well as our clients, rely on our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. if we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including the effects of market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or consolidated results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may be less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us; our clients may reduce or place limits on the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers; or our prospective clients may select other service providers, all of which may have other adverse effects on our reputation. the risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is higher in the current market environment, in which the consolidation, and in some instances failure, of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, have resulted in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. if our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our clients, on our or our clients' behalf, will be materially compromised. if our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide to them, our revenues will decrease accordingly. operational, business and reputational risks we face extensive and changing government regulation in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance. 26 table of contents most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the clients to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the scope of, and the manner and terms of delivery of, our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulation and supervisory oversight, both in and outside of the u.s. this regulation and supervisory oversight affects, among other things, the scope of our activities and client services, our capital and organizational structure, our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy, our common stock purchase actions, the manner in which we market our services, and our interactions with foreign regulatory agencies and officials. in particular, state street is registered with the federal reserve as a bank holding company pursuant to the bank holding company act of 1956. the bank holding company act limits the activities in which we (and non-banking entities that we are deemed to control under that act) may engage in activities the federal reserve considers to be closely related to banking or to managing or controlling banks. financial holding company status expands the activities permissible for a bank holding company to those that are deemed to be financial in nature by the federal reserve. state street elected to become a financial holding company under the bank holding company act. financial holding company status requires state street and its banking subsidiaries to remain well capitalized and well managed and to comply with community reinvestment act obligations. currently, under the bank holding company act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other businesses. several other aspects of the regulatory environment in which we operate, and related risks, are discussed below. additional information is provided in business - supervision and regulation included under item 1 of this form 10-k. the dodd-frank act, which became law in july 2010, has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on the regulatory structure of the global financial markets and has imposed, and is expected to continue to impose, significant additional costs on us. while u.s. banking regulators have finalized many regulations to implement various provisions of the dodd-frank act, they plan to propose or finalize additional implementing regulations in the future. in light of the further rule-making required to fully implement the dodd-frank act, as well as the discretion afforded to federal regulators, the full impact of this legislation on us, our business strategies and financial performance is not known at this time and may not be known for a number of years. several elements of the dodd-frank act, such as the volcker rule and enhanced prudential standards for financial institutions designated as sifis, impose or are expected to impose significant additional operational, compliance and risk management costs both in the near-term, as we develop and integrate appropriate systems and procedures, and on a recurring basis thereafter, as we monitor, support and refine those systems and procedures. a number of regulations implementing the dodd-frank act that are not yet final are anticipated to be finalized in 2015 or 2016, with compliance dates soon thereafter, and, as a result of and together with regulatory change in europe, the costs and impact on our operations of the post-financial crisis regulatory reform are accelerating. we may not anticipate completely all areas in which the dodd-frank act or other regulatory initiatives could affect our business or influence our future activities or the full effects or extent of related operational, compliance, risk management or other costs. the fdic and the federal reserve jointly issued a final rule under the dodd-frank act pursuant to which we are required to submit annually to the federal reserve and the fdic a plan, known as a resolution plan, for our rapid and orderly resolution under the bankruptcy code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the event of material financial distress or failure. the fdic also issued a final rule pursuant to which state street bank is required to submit annually to the fdic a plan for resolution in the event of its failure. we and state street bank submitted our most recent annual resolution plan to the federal reserve and the fdic on july 1, 2014. subsequently, in august 2014, the federal reserve and the fdic announced the completion of their reviews of resolution plans submitted in 2013 by 11 large, complex banking organizations, including state street, under the requirements of the dodd-frank act, and informed each of these organizations of specific shortcomings with their respective 2013 resolution plans. if the fdic and the federal reserve should determine that one or more of our 2014, 2015 or any subsequent resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the bankruptcy code, or we otherwise fail to meet regulatory expectations to the satisfaction of the federal reserve or the fdic with respect to one or more of such resolution plans, we could be subject to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, or be required to divest certain of our assets or operations. 27 table of contents other provisions of the dodd-frank act and its implementing regulations, such as new rules for swap market participants, additional regulation of financial system utilities, the designation of non-bank institutions as sifis, and further requirements to facilitate orderly liquidation of large institutions, could adversely affect our business operations and our competitive position, and could also negatively affect the operational and competitive positions of our clients. the final effects of the dodd-frank act on our business will depend largely on the scope and timing of the implementation of the dodd-frank act by regulatory bodies, which in many cases have been delayed, and the exercise of discretion by these regulatory bodies. the breadth of our business activities, together with the scope of our global operations and varying business practices in relevant jurisdictions, increase the complexity and costs of meeting our regulatory compliance obligations, including in areas that are receiving significant regulatory scrutiny. we are, therefore, subject to related risks of non-compliance, including fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining approvals, limitations on our business activities, or reputational harm, any of which may be significant. for example, the global nature of our client base requires us to comply with complex regulations relating to money laundering and anti-terrorist monitoring of our clients. the same applies with respect to anti-corruption laws and related requirements. regulatory scrutiny of compliance with these and other regulations is increasing and our operations are subject to regulations from multiple jurisdictions. the overall evolving regulatory landscape in each jurisdiction in which we operate, including requirements or restrictions on our service offerings or opportunities for new service offerings, particularly when applied on a cross-border basis, is not necessarily consistent with the requirements or regulatory objectives of other jurisdictions in which we have clients or operations. this evolving regulatory landscape may interfere with our ability to conduct our operations, with our pursuit of a common global operating model or with our ability to compete effectively with other financial institutions operating in those jurisdictions or which may be subject to different regulatory requirements than apply to us. in particular, non-u.s. regulation and initiatives may be inconsistent or conflict with current or proposed regulations in the u.s., which could create increased compliance and other costs that would adversely affect business, operations or profitability. our designation under the dodd-frank act in the u.s. as a sifi, and our identification by the fsb as a g-sib, to which certain regulatory capital surcharges may apply, will subject us to incrementally higher capital and prudential requirements, increased scrutiny of our activities and potential further regulatory requirements or increased regulatory expectations than those applicable to some of the financial institutions with which we compete as a custodian or asset manager. this increased scrutiny also has significantly increased, and may continue to increase, our expenses associated with regulatory compliance, including personnel and systems, as well as implementation and related costs to enhance our programs. we are further affected by other regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the basel iii final rule, including the proposed nsfr and basel iii slr, the implemented alternative investment fund managers directive, or aifmd, the european market infrastructure resolution, or emir, which is currently in an implementation phase, proposed revisions to the european collective investment fund, or ucits, proposed revisions to the markets in financial instruments directive and anticipated revisions to the european union data protection regulation. recent, proposed or potential regulations in the u.s. and europe with respect to money market funds, short-term wholesale funding, such as repurchase agreements or securities lending, or other shadow banking activities, could also adversely affect not only our own operations but also the operations of the clients to which we provide services. in europe, the aifmd increases the responsibilities and potential liabilities of custodians to certain of their clients for asset losses, and proposed revisions to the regulations affecting ucits are anticipated to incorporate similar, potentially more strict, standards. emir requires the reporting of all derivatives to a trade repository, the mandatory clearing of certain derivatives trades via a central counterparty and risk mitigation techniques for derivatives not cleared via a central counterparty. emir will impact our business activities, and increase costs, in various ways, some of which may be adverse. further, the european commission's proposal to introduce a proposed financial transaction tax or similar proposals elsewhere, if adopted, could materially affect the location and volume of financial transactions or otherwise alter the conduct of financial activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. the dodd-frank act and these other international regulatory changes could limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our regulatory capital requirements, alter the risk profile of certain of our core activities and impose additional costs on us, otherwise adversely affect our business, 28 table of contents our consolidated results of operations or financial condition and have other negative consequences, including a reduction of our credit ratings. different countries may respond to the market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting manners, which could increase the cost of compliance for us. the evolving regulatory environment, including changes to existing regulations and the introduction of new regulations, may also contribute to decisions we may make to suspend, reduce or withdraw from existing businesses, activities or initiatives. in addition to potential lost revenue associated with any such suspensions, reductions or withdrawals, any such suspensions, reductions or withdrawals may result in significant restructuring or related costs or exposures. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits, delays, or difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals or restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation, which may significantly and adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. the willingness of regulatory authorities to impose meaningful sanctions, and the level of fines and penalties imposed in connection with regulatory violations, have increased substantially since the financial crisis. regulatory agencies may, at times, limit our ability to disclose their findings, related actions or remedial measures. similarly, many of our clients are subject to significant regulatory requirements and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. if we cause clients to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. our calculations of credit, market and operational risk exposures, total risk-weighted assets and capital ratios for regulatory purposes depend on data inputs, formulae, models, correlations, and assumptions that are subject to changes over time, which changes, in addition to our consolidated financial results, could materially change our risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios from period to period. to calculate our credit, market and operational risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios for regulatory purposes, the basel iii final rule involves the use of current and historical data, including our own loss data and claims experience and similar information from other industry participants, market volatility measures, interest rates and spreads, asset valuations, credit exposures, and the creditworthiness of our counterparties. these calculations also involve the use of quantitative formulae, statistical models, historical correlations and significant assumptions. we refer to the data, formulae, models, correlations, and assumptions, as well as our related internal processes, as our advanced systems. while our advanced systems are generally quantitative in nature, significant components involve the exercise of judgment based, among other factors, on our and the financial services industry's evolving experience. any of these judgments or other elements of our advanced systems may not, individually or collectively, precisely represent or calculate the scenarios, circumstances, outputs or other results for which they are designed or intended. in addition, our advanced systems are subject to update and periodic revalidation in response to changes in our business activities and our historical experiences, forces and events experienced by the market broadly or by individual financial institutions, changes in regulations and regulatory interpretations and other factors, and are also subject to continuing regulatory review and approval. for example, a significant operational loss experienced by another financial institution, even if we do not experience a related loss, could result in a material change in our advanced systems and a corresponding material change in our risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios compared to prior periods. due to the influence of changes in our advanced systems, whether resulting from changes in data inputs, regulation or regulatory supervision or interpretation, state street-specific or more general market, or individual financial institution-specific, activities or experiences, or other updates or factors, we expect that our advanced systems and our credit, market and operational risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios calculated under the basel iii final rule will change, and may be volatile, over time, and that those latter changes or volatility could be material as calculated and measured from period to period. 29 table of contents our businesses may be adversely affected by regulatory enforcement and litigation. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. these may be directed generally to participants in the businesses or markets in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. in regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. from time to time, our clients, or the government on their or its own behalf, make claims and take legal action relating to, among other things, our performance of our fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. often, the announcement or other publication of such a claim or action, or of any related settlement, may spur the initiation of similar claims by other clients or governmental parties. in any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability, changes in our business practices or an adverse effect on our reputation or on client demand for our products and services. in regulatory settlements since the financial crisis, the fines imposed by regulators have increased substantially and may exceed in some cases the profit earned or harm caused by the regulatory or other breach. we are currently subject to both regulatory inquiries and civil litigation with respect to the provision of foreign exchange execution services to institutional investors that are also custody clients. we recorded total accruals of $185 million for 2014 with respect to certain of these matters, and these regulatory matters and litigation have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for any future period in which the relevant matter is resolved or any additional accrual is determined to be required, on our consolidated financial condition or on our reputation. the potential exposure from such matters is difficult to estimate because the basis on which some claims may be brought remains uncertain or the legal theories being applied are untested in the courts. for additional information concerning these matters, refer to the risk factor titled we face litigation and governmental and client inquiries in connection with our execution of indirect foreign exchange trades with custody clients; these issues have adversely affected our revenue from such trading and may cause our revenue from such trading to decline in the future. in many cases, we are required to self-report inappropriate or non-compliant conduct to the authorities, and our failure to do so may represent an independent regulatory violation. even when we promptly bring the matter to the attention of the appropriate authorities, we may nonetheless experience regulatory fines, liabilities to clients, harm to our reputation or other adverse effects in connection with self-reported matters. our operations are subject to regular and ongoing inspection by our bank and other financial market regulators in the u.s. and internationally. as a result of such inspections, regulators may identify areas in which we may need to take actions, which may be significant, to enhance our regulatory compliance or risk management practices. such remedial actions may entail significant cost, management attention, and systems development and such efforts may affect our ability to expand our business until such remedial actions are completed. our failure to implement enhanced compliance and risk management procedures in a manner and in a timeframe deemed to be responsive by the applicable regulatory authority could adversely impact our relationship with such regulatory authority and could lead to restrictions on our activities or other sanctions. further, we may become subject to regulatory scrutiny, inquiries or investigations associated with broad, industry-wide concerns, and potentially client-related inquiries or claims, whether or not we engaged in the relevant activities, and could experience associated increased costs or harm to our reputation. for example, we are a major foreign exchange dealer and also publish a commonly used foreign exchange benchmark. many participants in the foreign exchange industry have settled governmental allegations of manipulation in foreign exchange markets, particularly with respect to published benchmarks, and others are expected to be facing similar inquiries or related civil litigation. we are enhancing our monitoring with respect to foreign exchange transactions and communications by foreign exchange traders. we are also undertaking an internal review of communications and have been advising certain u.s. and non-u.s. government agencies of the results of such review. our business may become subject to material governmental review, proceedings or actions or the assertion of material claims, and the industry may become subject to increased regulation, any of which could decrease the volume and profitability of our foreign exchange trading activities. our revenue worldwide from direct foreign exchange sales and trading totaled $361 million in 2014, $304 million in 2013 and $263 million in 2012. separately, we are responding to subpoenas from the department of justice and the sec for information regarding our solicitation of asset servicing business of public retirement plans. we have retained counsel to conduct a review of these matters, including our use of consultants and 30 table of contents lobbyists in our solicitation of business of public retirement plans and, in at least one instance, political contributions by one of our consultants during and after a public bidding process. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending or potential matter or, if determined adversely against us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record reserves for probable and estimable loss contingencies. as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements, judgments or regulatory fines may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure. the resolution of certain pending or potential legal or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which the relevant matter is resolved or an accrual is determined to be required, on our consolidated financial condition or on our reputation. we face litigation and governmental and client inquiries in connection with our execution of indirect foreign exchange trades with custody clients; these issues have adversely affected our revenue from such trading and may cause our revenue from such trading to decline in the future. our custody clients are not required to execute foreign exchange transactions with us. to the extent they execute foreign exchange trades with us, they generally execute a greater volume using our direct methods of execution at negotiated rates or spreads than they execute using our indirect methods at rates we establish. where our clients or their investment managers choose to use our indirect foreign exchange execution methods, generally they elect that service for trades of smaller size or for currencies where regulatory or operational requirements cause trading in such currencies to present greater operational risk and costs for them. given the nature of these trades and other features of the indirect foreign exchange trading in which we engage, we generally charge higher rates for indirect execution than we charge for other trades, including trades in the interbank currency market. in october 2009, the attorney general of the state of california commenced an action under the california false claims act and california business and professional code related to services state street provides to certain california state pension plans. the california attorney general asserts that the pricing of certain foreign exchange transactions for these pension plans was governed by the custody contracts for these plans and that our pricing was not consistent with the terms of those contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, state street made false claims and engaged in unfair competition. the attorney general asserts actual damages of approximately $100 million for periods from 2001 to 2009 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. this action is in the discovery phase. we provide custody services to and engage in principal foreign exchange trading with government pension plans in other jurisdictions. since the commencement of the litigation in california, attorneys general and other governmental authorities from a number of jurisdictions, as well as u.s. attorney's offices, the u.s. department of labor and the sec, have requested information or issued subpoenas in connection with inquiries into the pricing of our indirect foreign exchange trading. we continue to respond to such inquiries and subpoenas. given that many of these inquiries are ongoing, we can provide no assurance that litigation or regulatory proceedings or actions will not be brought against us or as to the nature of the claims that might be alleged. such litigation, proceedings or actions may be brought on theories similar to those advanced in california or on alternative theories of liability. we engage in indirect foreign exchange trading with a broad range of custody clients in the u.s. and internationally. we have responded and are responding to information requests from a number of clients concerning our indirect foreign exchange rates. in february 2011, a putative class action was filed in federal court in boston seeking unspecified damages, including treble damages, on behalf of all custodial clients that executed certain foreign exchange transactions with state street from 1998 to 2009. the putative class action alleges, among other things, that the rates at which state street executed foreign currency trades constituted an unfair and deceptive practice under massachusetts law and a breach of the duty of loyalty. two other putative class actions are currently pending in federal court in boston alleging various violations of erisa on behalf of all erisa plans custodied with us that executed indirect foreign exchange trades with state street from 1998 onward. the complaints allege that state street caused class members to pay unfair and unreasonable rates for indirect foreign exchange trades with state street. the complaints seek unspecified damages, disgorgement of profits, and other equitable relief. other claims may be asserted in the future, including in response to developments in the actions discussed above or governmental proceedings. 31 table of contents we cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceedings, or whether other proceedings might be commenced against us by clients or government authorities. for example, the new york attorney general and the united states attorney for the southern district of new york, each of which has brought indirect foreign exchange-related legal proceedings against one of our competitors, have made inquiries to us about our indirect foreign exchange execution methods. we expect that plaintiffs will seek to recover their share of all or a portion of the revenue that we have recorded from providing indirect foreign exchange trades. the following table summarizes our estimated total revenue worldwide from indirect foreign exchange trading for the years ended december 31: (in millions) revenue from indirect foreign exchange trading 2008 $ 462 2009 369 2010 336 2011 331 2012 248 2013 285 2014 246 we believe that the amount of our revenue from such trading has been of a similar or lesser order of magnitude for many years prior to 2008. our revenue calculations related to indirect foreign exchange trading reflect a judgment concerning the relationship between the rates we charge for indirect foreign exchange execution and indicative interbank market rates near in time to execution. our revenue from foreign exchange trading generally depends on the difference between the rates we set for those indirect trades and indicative interbank market rates at the time of settlement of the trade. we cannot predict the outcome of any pending matters or whether a court, in the event of an adverse resolution, would consider our revenue to be the appropriate measure of damages. in each of the third and fourth quarters of 2014, we announced charges (due to legal accruals recorded in those quarters) reflecting our intention to seek to resolve some, but not all, of the outstanding and potential claims arising out of our indirect foreign exchange client activities. with respect to those legal accruals: (1) we are engaged in discussions with some, but not all, of the governmental agencies and civil litigants that we have described in connection with these matters regarding potential settlements of their outstanding or potential claims; (2) there can be no assurance that we will reach a settlement in any of these matters, that the cost of such settlements would not materially exceed such accruals, or that other claims will not be asserted; and (3) we do not currently intend to seek to negotiate settlements with respect to all outstanding and potential claims, and our current efforts, even if successful, will not address all of our potential material legal exposure arising out of our indirect foreign exchange client activities. the resolution of pending matters or the resolution of any that may be initiated, filed or threatened could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, our consolidated financial condition and our reputation. the heightened regulatory and media scrutiny on indirect foreign exchange services has resulted in clients reducing the volume of indirect foreign exchange trades, which has had and is anticipated to continue to have an adverse impact on our revenue from, and the profitability of, our indirect foreign exchange trading. some custody clients or their investment managers have elected to change the manner in which they execute foreign exchange with us or have decided not to use our foreign exchange execution methods. we do not expect the market, regulatory and other pressures on our indirect foreign exchange services to decrease in 2015. we intend to continue to offer our custody clients a range of execution options for their foreign exchange needs; however, the range of services, costs and profitability vary by execution option. we cannot provide assurance that clients or investment managers who choose to use less or none of our indirect foreign exchange trading, or to use alternatives to our existing indirect foreign exchange trading, will choose the alternatives offered by us. accordingly, our revenue earned from providing these foreign exchange trading services may decline further. we may incur losses arising from our investments in sponsored investment funds, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the periods incurred. in the normal course of business, we manage various types of sponsored investment funds through ssga. the services we provide to these sponsored investment funds generate management fee revenue, as well as servicing fees from our other businesses. from time to time, we may invest cash in the funds, which we refer to as seed capital, in order for the funds to establish a performance history for newly launched strategies. these funds may meet the definition of variable interest entities, as defined by gaap, and if we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary of these funds, we may be required to consolidate these funds in our financial statements under gaap. the funds follow specialized 32 table of contents investment company accounting rules which prescribe fair value for the underlying investment securities held by the funds. in the aggregate, we expect any financial losses that we realize over time from these seed investments to be limited to the actual fair value of the amount invested in the consolidated fund, which is based on the fair value of the underlying investment securities held by the funds. however, in the event of a fund wind-down, gross gains and losses of the fund may be recognized for financial accounting purposes in different periods during the time the fund is consolidated but not wholly owned. although we expect the actual economic loss to be limited to the amount invested, our losses in any period for financial accounting purposes could exceed the value of our economic interests in the fund and could exceed the value of our initial seed capital investment. the net assets of any consolidated fund are solely available to settle the liabilities of the fund and to settle any investors' ownership redemption requests, including any seed capital invested in the fund by state street. we are not contractually required to provide financial or any other support to any of our sponsored investment funds and are subject to regulations that prohibit or limit our ability to do so. in addition, neither creditors nor equity investors in the sponsored investment funds have any recourse to state street's general credit. in instances where we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the sponsored investment fund, we do not include the funds in our consolidated financial statements. our risk of loss associated with these unconsolidated funds primarily represents our seed capital investment, which could become realized as a result of poor investment performance. however, the amount of loss we may recognize during any period would be limited to the carrying amount of our investment. our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our clients incur substantial losses in investment pools in which we act as agent or are restricted in redeeming their interests in these investment pools. we manage assets on behalf of clients in several forms, including in collective investment pools, money market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term investment funds. in addition to the impact on the market value of client portfolios, at various times since 2007, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected the investment performance of certain of our products and our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from our pooled investment vehicles. our management of collective investment pools on behalf of clients exposes us to reputational risk and operational losses. if our clients incur substantial investment losses in these pools, receive redemptions as in-kind distributions rather than in cash, or experience significant under-performance relative to the market or our competitors' products, our reputation could be significantly harmed, which harm could significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple investment pools to achieve scale, we face the risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in the aggregate. within our investment management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds that generally offer our clients the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally daily or monthly. this feature requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably anticipated liquidity requirements of our clients. the importance of maintaining liquidity varies by product type, but it is a particularly important feature in money market funds and other products designed to maintain a constant net asset value of $1.00. during the market disruption that accelerated following the bankruptcy of lehman brothers, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short- and long-term fixed-income securities, declined dramatically, and providing liquidity to meet all client demands in these investment pools without adversely affecting the return to non-withdrawing clients became more difficult. in 2008, we imposed restrictions on cash redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, as the per-unit market value of those funds' assets had declined below the constant $1.00 the funds employ to effect purchase and redemption transactions. both the decline of the funds' net asset value below $1.00 and the imposition of restrictions on redemptions had a significant client, reputational and regulatory impact on us, and the recurrence of such or similar circumstances in the future could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. during this period, we also continued to process purchase and redemption of units of the collateral pools at $1.00 although the fair market value of the collateral pools' assets were less than $1.00. our willingness in the future to continue to process purchases and redemptions from collateral pools at $1.00 when the fair market value of our collateral pools' assets is less than $1.00 could expose us to significant liability. our unwillingness in the future to continue to process 33 table of contents purchases and redemptions from collateral pools at $1.00 when the fair market value of the collateral pools' assets are less than $1.00 could similarly expose us to significant liability. in the case of ssga funds that engage in securities lending, we implemented limitations, which were terminated in 2010, on the portion of an investor's interest in such fund that may be withdrawn during any month. if higher than normal demands for liquidity from our clients were to return to post-lehman-brothers-bankruptcy levels or increase, managing the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools could become more difficult. if such liquidity problems were to recur, our relationships with our clients may be adversely affected, and, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to consolidate the investment pools into our consolidated statement of condition; levels of redemption activity could increase; and our consolidated results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected. in addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and selling the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, if at all, may then be difficult. while it is currently not our intention, and we do not have contractual or other obligations to do so, we have in the past guaranteed, and may in the future guarantee, liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a fund or otherwise take actions to mitigate the impact of market conditions on our clients and if permitted by applicable laws. making a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own consolidated liquidity and financial condition. because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity or other demands of our clients. the extreme volatility in the equity markets has led to the potential for the return on passive and quantitative products to deviate from their target returns. any decision by us to provide financial support to an investment pool to support our reputation in circumstances where we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so could result in the recognition of significant losses, could adversely affect the regulatory view of our capital levels or plans and could, in certain situations, require us to consolidate the investment pools into our consolidated statement of condition. any failure of the pools to meet redemption requests, or under-performance of our pools relative to similar products offered by our competitors, could harm our business and our reputation. the potential reputational impact from any decision to support or not to support a fund, and from restrictions on redemptions, is most acute in connection with money market funds and other cash products that employ a constant net asset value of $1.00 for purposes of effecting subscriptions and redemptions. to some degree investors in such cash products rely upon an implicit assumption that the sponsors of the investment vehicle will support the $1.00 valuation of a cash fund. while there can be no assurance that we will not change our policy in the future, we have disclosed in the offering documents for such cash products that we do not intend to support the $1.00 valuation of such products. if such cash funds were in the future to have valuations of less than $1.00, such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our clients that invested in such funds. our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. our relationship with many of our clients is predicated on our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. adverse publicity, regulatory actions or fines, litigation, operational failures or the failure to meet client expectations or fiduciary or other obligations could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain clients or our sources of funding for the same or other businesses. for example, as discussed earlier in this risk factors section, we have experienced adverse publicity with respect to our indirect foreign exchange trading, and this adverse publicity has contributed to a shift of client volume to other foreign exchange execution methods. similarly, regulatory and reputational issues in our transition management business in the u.k. in 2010 and 2011 adversely affected our revenue from that business in 2012, 2013 and 2014. preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems, procedures and controls that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to timely identify, understand and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and client expectations. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. we may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but 34 table of contents not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, foreign exchange risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. we have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. while we currently believe that our risk management process is effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the internal and external, including service provider, risks in our various businesses. risks that individuals, either employees or contractors, consciously circumvent established control mechanisms to, for example, exceed trading or investment management limitations, or commit fraud, are particularly challenging to manage through a control framework. the financial and reputational impact of control failures can be significant. persistent or repeated issues with respect to controls may raise concerns among regulators regarding our culture, governance and control environment. while we seek to contractually limit our financial exposure to operational risk, the degree of protection that we are able to achieve varies, and our potential exposure may be greater than the revenue we anticipate that we will earn from the client relationship. in addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. we may fail to identify or fully understand the implications of changes in our businesses or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. if our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, regulatory or industry requirements, our businesses, our counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations. operational risk is inherent in all of our business activities. as a leading provider of services to institutional investors, we provide a broad array of services, including research, investment management, trading services and investment servicing that expose us to operational risk. in addition, these services generate a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements, many of which involve the opportunity for human, systems or process errors. we face the risk that the control policies, procedures and systems we have established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, will be inadequate or will become outdated. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervision or monitoring mechanisms, service-provider processes or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our future consolidated results of operations. given the volume and magnitude of transactions we process on a daily basis, operational losses represent a potentially significant financial risk for our business. operational errors that result in us remitting funds to a failing or bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses. we may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. in addition, our clients, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the clients, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. when we record balance sheet accruals for probable and estimable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any accruals we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. the quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in inadequate risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions, and lapses in disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could occur, any of which could result in material harm . we use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our businesses. as an input to our overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, operational risk, interest-rate risk and business risk we face. during the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we sometimes use models to measure the value of asset and liability positions for which reliable market prices are not available. we also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading activities, hedging, asset-and-liability management and whether to change business strategy. in all of these uses, the underlying model or model assumptions, or inadequate model assumptions, could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences, including material loss and material non-compliance with regulatory requirements or expectations. because of our widespread usage of models, potential limitations in models pose an ongoing risk to us. we also may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. our measurement 35 table of contents methodologies rely on many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations on which we rely may not continue to be relevant. consequently, the measurements that we make for regulatory purposes may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. moreover, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. while our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, they may underestimate the level of capital necessary to conduct our businesses. additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures may not be effective in every circumstance, and, similarly, it is possible we may identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting. any such lapses or deficiencies may materially and adversely affect our business and consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial condition, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require us to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies, expose us to regulatory or legal proceedings, subject us to fines, penalties or judgments or harm our reputation. cost shifting to non-u.s. jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings. we actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes and business support functions to lower-cost geographic locations, such as poland, india and china. we may accomplish this shift by establishing operations in lower-cost locations, by outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions or through joint ventures. this effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these operations. in addition, we are exposed to the relevant macroeconomic, political and similar risks generally involved in doing business in those jurisdictions. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. during periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exist with respect to maintaining a high level of service delivery. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be affected by regulatory and client acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology, real estate and restructuring expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. in addition, the financial benefits of lower-cost locations may diminish over time. development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. the introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and resources, including regulatory approvals. substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our clients and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely manner at competitive prices. our failure to manage these risks and uncertainties also exposes us to enhanced risk of operational lapses which may result in the recognition of financial statement liabilities. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives, vendor relationships and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our clients. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, as well as on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure, both internal and external, to, among other things, record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions and other data, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets and jurisdictions. since 2012, several financial services firms have suffered successful cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data and reputational harm. we also have been subjected to cyber-attack, and although we have not suffered a material breach of our systems, it is possible that we could suffer such a breach in the future. we may not 36 table of contents implement effective systems and other measures to effectively prevent or mitigate the full diversity of cyber-threats or improve and adapt such systems and measures as such threats evolve and advance. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could adversely affect our ability to process transactions, provide services or maintain systems availability, maintain compliance and internal controls or otherwise appropriately conduct our business activities. for example, there could be sudden increases in transaction or data volumes, electrical or telecommunications outages, cyber-attacks or employee or contractor error or malfeasance. the third parties with which we do business, which facilitate our business activities or with whom we otherwise engage or interact, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology, infrastructure or government institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. in particular, we, like other financial services firms, will continue to face increasing cyber threats, including computer viruses, malicious code, distributed denial of service attacks, phishing attacks, information security breaches or employee or contractor error or malfeasance that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our, our clients' or other parties' confidential, personal, proprietary or other information or otherwise disrupt, compromise or damage our or our clients' or other parties' business assets, operations and activities. our status as a global systemically important financial institution may enhance the risk that we are targeted by such cyber-security threats. we therefore could experience significant related costs and exposures, including lost or constrained ability to provide our services or maintain systems availability to clients, regulatory inquiries, enforcements, actions and fines, litigation, damage to our reputation or property and enhanced competition. due to our dependence on technology and the important role it plays in our business operations, we must persist in improving and updating our information technology infrastructure. updating these systems and facilities can require significant resources and often involves implementation, integration and security risks that could cause financial, reputational and operational harm. however, failing to properly respond to and invest in changes and advancements in technology can limit our ability to attract and retain clients, prevent us from offering similar products and services as those offered by our competitors and inhibit our ability to meet regulatory requirements. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects. our businesses and relationships with clients are dependent on our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our clients' trade secrets and confidential information (including client transactional data and personal data about our employees, our clients and our clients' clients). unauthorized access to such information may occur, resulting in its theft, loss or other misappropriation. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, our relationships with our clients and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries, enforcement and fines, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we are subject to claims of third-party intellectual property rights. our potential inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively may allow competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. to the extent that we do not protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, other parties, including former employees, with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. in addition, we may infringe on claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. we may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. third-party intellectual rights, valid or not, may also impede our deployment of the full scope of our products and service capabilities in all jurisdictions in which we operate or 37 table of contents market our products and services. the intellectual property of an acquired business may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. however, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent on licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated. competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of challenges associated with evolving compensation restrictions applicable, or which may become applicable, to banks and some asset managers and that potentially are not applicable to other financial services firms in all jurisdictions. the unexpected loss of services of key personnel, both in business units and control functions, could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, operations and clients, their years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, could adversely affect our clients' perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates or to provide other services to them. we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. the markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. these markets are changing as a result of new and evolving laws and regulations applicable to financial services institutions. regulatory-driven market changes cannot always be anticipated, and may adversely affect the demand for, and profitability of, the products and services that we offer. in addition, new market entrants and competitors may address changes in the markets more rapidly than we do, or may provide clients with a more attractive offering of products and services, adversely affecting our business. we have also experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses, particularly our custodial and investment management services. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker/dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. further consolidation within the financial services industry could also pose challenges to us in the markets we serve, including potentially increased downward pricing pressure across our businesses. some of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do or are not subject to as stringent capital or other regulatory requirements as are we. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. these competitors are in some instances significant clients, and the retention of these clients involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality and intra-company confidentiality. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our client after a short notice period. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, client pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures pose risks for our business. as part of our business strategy, we acquire complementary businesses and technologies, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and divest portions of our business. we undertake transactions of varying sizes to, among other reasons, expand our geographic footprint, access new clients, technologies or services, develop closer or more collaborative relationships with our business partners, efficiently deploy capital or leverage cost savings or other business or financial opportunities. we may not achieve the expected benefits of these transactions, which could result in increased costs, lowered revenues, ineffective deployment of capital, regulatory concerns, exit costs or diminished competitive position or reputation. transactions of this nature also involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, managerial, operational, cultural and employment challenges, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. for example, the businesses that we 38 table of contents acquire or our strategic alliances or joint ventures may under-perform relative to the price paid or the resources committed by us; we may not achieve anticipated cost savings; or we may otherwise be adversely affected by acquisition-related charges. further, past acquisitions have resulted in the recognition of goodwill and other significant intangible assets in our consolidated statement of condition. these assets are not eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital under applicable requirements. in addition, we may be required to record impairment in our consolidated statement of income in future periods if we determine that the value of these assets has declined. in the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded a $9 million impairment for that reason. through our acquisitions or joint ventures, we may also assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. while in most of our transactions we seek to mitigate these risks through, among other things, due diligence and indemnification provisions, these or other risk-mitigating provisions we put in place may not be sufficient to address these liabilities and contingencies. various regulatory approvals or consents are generally required prior to closing of these transactions, which may include approvals of the federal reserve and other domestic and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms that materially affect the terms of the transaction or our ability to capture some of the opportunities presented by the transaction. any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction. acquisitions or joint ventures we announce may not be completed if we do not receive the required regulatory approvals, if regulatory approvals are significantly delayed or if other closing conditions are not satisfied. the integration of our acquisitions results in risks to our business and other uncertainties. the integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. integration activities are complicated and time consuming and can involve significant unforeseen costs. we may not be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings as anticipated, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related revenue growth or cost savings. we also face the risk of being unable to retain, or cross-sell our products or services to, the clients of acquired companies or joint ventures. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in client dissatisfaction and defection. clients of investment servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these clients or a significant reduction in the revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, could adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions or cause impairment to goodwill and other intangibles. with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients or employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. long-term contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk. we enter into long-term contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing services to clients, primarily for conversions, including services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. we also enter into longer-term arrangements with respect to custody, fund administration and depository services. these arrangements generally set forth our fee schedule for the term of the contract and, absent a change in service requirements, do not permit us to re-price the contract for changes in our costs or for market pricing. the long-term contracts for these relationships require, in some cases, considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. the profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services, efficiently assume our contractual responsibilities in a timely manner, control our costs and maintain the relationship with the client for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. our estimate of the profitability of these arrangements can be adversely affected by declines in the assets under the clients' management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or client-specific issues. in addition, the profitability of 39 table of contents these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross-sell additional services to these clients, and we may be unable to do so. performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. our failure to meet specified service levels or implementation timelines may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the client. if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see our revenue decline. changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. new accounting standards, or changes to existing accounting standards, resulting both from initiatives of the financial accounting standards board, or fasb, or their convergence efforts with the international accounting standards board, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the fasb or the sec or otherwise reflected in gaap, potentially could affect our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. these changes are difficult to predict, and can materially affect how we record and report our consolidated results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for prior periods. changes in tax laws, rules or regulations, challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, and changes in the composition of our pre-tax earnings may increase our effective tax rate and thus adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. our businesses can be directly or indirectly affected by new tax legislation, the expiration of existing tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. the u.s. federal government, state governments, including massachusetts, and jurisdictions around the world continue to review proposals to amend tax laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business that could have a negative impact on our after-tax earnings. for example, the expiration at the end of 2014 of provisions of the u.s. tax laws that favorably affected the taxation of our non-u.s. operations could negatively affect our effective tax rate beginning in 2015. although these u.s. tax laws have previously expired and been re- enacted, it is uncertain whether they will be re-enacted again. in the normal course of our business, we are subject to review by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities. a review by any such authority could result in an increase in our recorded tax liability. in addition to the aforementioned risks, our effective tax rate is dependent on the nature and geographic composition of our pre-tax earnings and could be negatively affected by changes in these factors. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen events, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the emergence of a pandemic or acts of embezzlement. acts of terrorism, natural disasters or the emergence of a pandemic could significantly affect our business. we have instituted disaster recovery and continuity plans to address risks from terrorism, natural disasters and pandemic; however, anticipating or addressing all potential contingencies is not possible for events of this nature. acts of terrorism, either targeted or broad in scope, or natural disasters could damage our physical facilities, harm our employees and disrupt our operations. a pandemic, or concern about a possible pandemic, could lead to operational difficulties and impair our ability to manage our business. acts of terrorism, natural disasters and pandemics could also negatively affect our clients, counterparties and service providers, as well as result in disruptions in general economic activity and the financial markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under financial condition - market risk management in management's discussion and analysis, included under item 7 of this form 10-k, is incorporated by reference herein.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under financial condition - market risk management in management's discussion and analysis, included under item 7 of this form 10-k, is incorporated by reference herein.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under "market risk management" in "financial condition" included under item 7, management's discussion and analysis, of this form 10-k, is incorporated by reference herein.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under "market risk management" in "financial condition" included under item 7, management's discussion and analysis, of this form 10-k, is incorporated by reference herein.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under market risk management in "financial condition" included under item 7, management's discussion and analysis, of this form 10-k, is incorporated by reference herein.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under market risk management in "financial condition" in our management's discussion and analysis in this form 10-k , is incorporated by reference herein.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information provided under market risk management in "financial condition" in our management's discussion and analysis in this form 10-k , is incorporated by reference herein.risk factors this form 10-k contains statements (including, without limitation, statements in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in this form 10-k under item 7) that are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, state street and its management may make other written or oral communications from time to time that contain forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements, including statements as to industry trends, management's future expectations and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts, are based on assumptions by management, and are often identified by such forward-looking terminology as "expect," "look," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "seek," "may," "will," "trend," "target" and "goal," or similar statements or variations of such terms. forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements about state street's confidence in its strategies and its expectations about financial performance, market growth, acquisitions and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities, and earnings. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, and are based on management's expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made and are not guarantees of future results. these expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, and factors specific to state street and its subsidiaries, including state street bank. factors that could cause 6 changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based include, but are not limited to: our ability to integrate and convert acquisitions into our business, including the acquisition of investors financial services corp.; the level and volatility of interest rates, particularly in the u.s. and europe; the performance and volatility of securities, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; and economic conditions and monetary and other governmental actions designed to address those conditions; the liquidity of the u.s. and european securities and currency markets, particularly the markets for fixed income securities, including asset-backed commercial paper, and the liquidity requirements of our customers; the credit quality and credit agency ratings of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss; our ability to attract non-interest bearing deposits and other low-cost funds; the results of litigation and similar disputes and, in particular, the effect that current or potential litigation may have on the reputation of ssga and its ability to attract and retain customers; the possibility that the ultimate costs of the legal exposure associated with certain of ssga's actively managed fixed-income strategies may exceed or be below the level of the related reserve, in view of the uncertainties of the timing and outcome of litigation, and the amounts involved; and the possibility of further developments of the nature giving rise to the legal exposure associated with ssga's actively managed fixed-income and other investment strategies; the performance and demand for the products and services we offer; the competitive environment in which we operate; the enactment of legislation and changes in regulation and enforcement that impact us and our customers, as well as the effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, including litigation; our ability to continue to grow revenue, control expenses and attract the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements; our ability to manage systemic risks and control operating risks; our ability to obtain quality and timely services from third parties with which we contract; trends in the globalization of investment activity and the growth on a worldwide basis in financial assets; trends in governmental and corporate pension plans and savings rates; changes in accounting standards and practices, including changes in the interpretation of existing standards, that impact our consolidated financial statements; and changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that impact the amount of taxes due. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis upon which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in this form 10-k and in our other sec filings, including our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k, which are accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov or on our website at www.statestreet.com. 7 actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this form 10-k or disclosed in our other sec filings, and forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date this form 10-k is filed with the sec. state street undertakes no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k to reflect events after the date it is filed with the sec. the factors discussed above and below are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. though we strive to monitor and mitigate risk, we cannot anticipate all potential economic, operational and financial developments that may adversely impact our operations and our financial results. business conditions/economic risk our businesses are affected by global economic conditions, political uncertainties and volatility and other developments in the financial markets. factors such as interest rates and commodities prices, regional and international rates of economic growth, inflation, political instability, the liquidity and volatility of fixed-income, equity, credit, currency, derivative and other financial markets, and investor confidence can significantly affect the financial markets in which we and our customers are engaged. such factors have affected, and may further unfavorably affect, both regional and worldwide economic growth, creating adverse effects on many companies, including us, in ways that are not predictable or that we may fail to anticipate. a significant market downturn may lead to a decline in the value of assets under management and custody, which would reduce our asset-based fee revenue and the value of securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and may adversely impact other transaction-based revenue, such as securities finance revenue, and the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers. the assets held by our asset-backed commercial paper conduits can be similarly affected. in addition, lower market volatility, even in a generally rising market environment, may reduce trading volumes of our customers, and our ability to achieve attractive spreads, which could lead to lower trading revenues. our revenues, particularly our trading revenues, may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border investments made by our customers. the level of cross-border activity can be influenced by a number of factors, including geopolitical instabilities and customer mix. general market downturns would also likely lead to a decline in the volume of transactions we execute on behalf of our customers, decreasing our fee and revenue opportunities and reducing the level of assets under management and custody. market performance and volatility may also influence the revenue that we receive from off-balance sheet activities. a widening of credit spreads or credit deterioration could cause some or all off-balance sheet assets and liabilities to be consolidated onto our balance sheet. in addition, revenues during a calendar year, driven by the products and services we provide, can fluctuate commensurate with the normal course of business activity of our customers, typically resulting in stronger revenues in the second and fourth quarters and relatively weaker revenues in the first and third quarters. in recent years, investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing and non-u.s. asset servicing have been areas of rapid growth in our business. if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see a slowing in the growth rate of our revenue. strategic/competition risk we expect the markets in which we operate to remain both highly competitive and global across all facets of our business, resulting in increases in both regional and global competitive risks. we have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial 8 services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker/dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. many of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. these competitors are in some instances significant customers, and the retention of these customers involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our customer after a short-notice period. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, customer pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, development of strategic alliances and divestitures of portions of our business, in addition to fostering organic growth opportunities, are an active part of our overall business strategy to remain competitive. we may not be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings, alliances may not be successful, and related revenue growth or cost savings may not be achieved. in addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the divestiture of identified businesses on satisfactory terms, if at all, and this would reduce anticipated benefits to earnings. ongoing consolidation within the financial services industry could pose challenges in the markets we serve. acquisitions present risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. our financial results for 2008 and for the next few years may be significantly impacted by our ability to achieve the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate as a result of the acquisition of investors financial in 2007, as well as our ability to retain its customer base and to successfully cross-sell our products and services to its customers. these cost savings and customer retention goals will be significantly influenced by our ability to convert former investor financial customers onto state street systems in a timely manner and to maintain the level of customer service such customers received from investors financial. future acquisitions may present similar integration, cost savings and customer retention challenges. intellectual property of an acquired business, such as currenex, inc. in 2007, may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business; however, these types of acquisitions entail the risk that the acquired business does not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent upon licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses such as investors financial normally entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in customer dissatisfaction and defection. customers of businesses that we acquire, including, in the case of investors financial, its largest customer, are competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these customers or a significant reduction in revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, would adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from the acquisition. our ability to acquire other entities that provide our core services to achieve greater economies of scale or to expand our product offering is dependent upon our financial resources and ability to access the capital markets. due to company-specific issues or lack of liquidity in the capital markets, our ability to continue to expand through acquisitions or to dispose of businesses that no longer are strategic to us may be adversely affected. 9 in connection with most acquisitions, before the acquisition can be completed, we must obtain various regulatory approvals or consents, which approvals may include the federal reserve board, the massachusetts commissioner of banks and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms. although we would not enter into a transaction anticipating materially adverse regulatory conditions, such conditions may be imposed, or we may experience regulatory delays, that could limit the benefits of the transaction. with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the two businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company's ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. where we acquire a business and combine it with our operations, we are also exposed to risks from unknown or contingent liabilities with respect to which we may have no recourse against the seller. while we normally seek to mitigate that risk through pre-acquisition due diligence, increasingly acquisition transactions are competitive auctions in which we have limited time and access to information to evaluate the risks inherent in the business being acquired, and no or limited recourse against the seller if undisclosed liabilities are discovered after we enter into a definitive agreement. we may not achieve the benefits we sought in an acquisition, or, if achieved, those benefits may come later than we anticipated. failure to achieve anticipated benefits from an acquisition could result in increased costs and lower revenues than expected of the combined company. in addition, if the financial performance associated with an acquisition falls short of expectations, it may result in impairment charges associated with the intangible assets reported as part of the acquisition. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. the risks we face include rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our customers, and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices. our proactive cross selling of multiple products and services to our customers can exacerbate the negative financial effects associated with the risk of loss of any one customer. developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through processing, have required continued internal procedural enhancements and further technology investment. our strategy for growth depends upon both attracting new customers and cross selling additional products and services to our existing customer base. to the extent that we are not able to achieve these goals, we may not be able to attain our financial goals. substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented to offer such products while also managing associated risks. the introduction of new products and services can also entail significant time and resources. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our customers. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, as well as our results of operations and financial condition. liquidity risk and management liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated balance sheet and to our ability to service our customer base. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, our primary source of 10 funding is customer deposits. our deposits are predominantly short-term, transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. in managing our consolidated balance sheet, we also depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the federal reserve discount window, or comparable non-u.s. central banking sources. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of our corporate debt or equity purchasers, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. similarly, the failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating on our obligations may preclude us from being competitive in certain products. general market disruptions, natural disasters or operational problems may affect either third parties or us, and can also have an adverse affect on our liquidity. we generally use our sources of funds to invest in a portfolio of investment securities and to maintain the liquidity necessary to extend credit to our customers. these funds are invested in a variety of assets ranging from short-term interest-bearing deposits with banks to longer-maturity investment securities. while we have historically maintained our investment portfolio at a relatively short duration with respect to interest-rate risk, the average maturity of the investment portfolio is significantly longer than the contractual maturity of our deposit base. in addition, as part of our custody business, we provide overdraft financing to our customers, and liquidity lines to third-party commercial paper conduits and mutual funds, as well as more traditional extensions of credit. the demand for credit is difficult to forecast and control, and may be at its peak at times of dislocation in the securities markets, potentially compounding liquidity issues. in a period of financial disruption, or if negative developments occurred with respect to state street, the availability and cost of our funding sources could be adversely affected. in that event, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in our realizing a loss or experiencing other adverse accounting consequences upon those dispositions. our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other state street or market event-driven reductions in liquidity. in our business activities, we assume liquidity and interest-rate risk in managing longer-term assets or asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or where the customers participating in these products may have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. these business activities include, among others, the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits managed by our structured products group, securities finance collateral pools and money market and other short-term investment funds. in the commercial paper conduits, for example, pools of medium- and long-term financial instruments, principally mortgage- and other asset-backed securities, are financed through the issuance of short-term commercial paper. the conduits strive to maintain a positive margin between the rate of return on their longer-term assets and the short-term cost of funding. this mismatch in the maturity of the investment pools and funding creates risk if disruptions occur in the liquidity of the short-term debt or asset-backed securities markets, or if the cost of short-term borrowings exceeds the conduits' rate of return on their investment pools or purchased assets. 11 in connection with the administration of the activities of the commercial paper conduits, we provide contractual back-up liquidity to the conduits if they cannot meet their liquidity needs through the issuance of commercial paper. other institutions can and do provide liquidity to the conduits. in the event that maturing commercial paper cannot be placed by the conduits, the liquidity providers are required by contract to, among other things, provide liquidity to the conduits by purchasing portfolio assets from them. we may also provide liquidity by purchasing commercial paper or providing other extensions of credit to the conduits. beginning in the third quarter of 2007, asset-backed commercial paper conduits, including those sponsored by state street, experienced significantly less liquidity and higher borrowing costs in the global fixed-income securities markets, and in a few cases, required liquidity support from their sponsoring bank. the fixed-income markets remain significantly disrupted, and the potential for decreased liquidity, increased funding costs and adverse asset valuations remains a material risk. we on occasion have purchased, and during the third and fourth quarters of 2007 did purchase, commercial paper from the conduits, the purchase of which we recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. we may continue to do so in the future. these purchases of commercial paper were funded from our general liquidity, and the liquidity agreements were not drawn. the conduits are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. however, if circumstances change we may be required, under existing accounting standards, to consolidate the conduits onto our consolidated balance sheet. for example, if changes in market conditions require us to update the assumptions in our expected loss model, we may be required to increase the amount of first-loss notes in order for the investors in the first-loss notes to continue to be considered the primary beneficiaries of the conduits. in various circumstances, including if the conduits are not able to issue additional first-loss notes or take other actions, we may be determined to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits, and we would be required to consolidate the conduits' assets and liabilities onto our consolidated balance sheet. existing accounting standards may be changed or interpreted differently in the future in a manner that increases the risk of consolidation of the conduits. consolidation, or the purchase of assets of the conduits pursuant to the contractual agreements described above, could affect the size of our consolidated balance sheet and related funding requirements, our financial and regulatory capital ratios and, if the conduit assets include unrealized losses, could require us to recognize those losses. because of our contractual agreements to purchase assets from the conduits under specified conditions, we are also exposed to the credit risks in the conduits' portfolios. other of our business activities that involve managing pools of assets that are funded in the short-term markets and invested in longer-term markets include managing securities finance collateral pools and money market and other short-term investment funds. these businesses involve similar risks inherent in an arbitrage of funding and investment; however, in these businesses, we primarily act as agent and do not have the direct principal risk. for example, if a collateral pool or a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the pool that exceeded available liquidity, the investment pool would be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements. during periods of disruption in the credit markets, it may be difficult to sell the assets held by these pools at a reasonable price. in those circumstances, the financial loss accrues to the pools' investors and not to us. similarly, credit risks inherent in these portfolios are attributable to the investors in the investment pools and not to state street. these investment pools may have significant exposure to individual credits. the incurrence of substantive losses in these pools, particularly in money market funds, could result in significant harm to our reputation and significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. in some circumstances, we may seek to mitigate that risk by compensating the investment pools for all or a portion of such losses even if not contractually obligated to do so; 12 however, that would potentially result in the recognition of significant losses or a greater use of capital than we have available. certain accounts managed by ssga are managed in accordance with specific investment guidelines and have the benefit of contractual arrangements with third-party financial institutions that allow the accounts to issue and redeem units based upon the book value of such units rather than market value. the third-party financial institutions have an obligation to fund any shortfall after all the units have been redeemed at book value. several of these accounts were significantly impacted by the volatility in the fixed-income markets in the second half of 2007. the continued willingness of these financial institutions to partner with us in these products may be negatively impacted if the variance between book and market value and other risk metrics fall or remain below the financial institutions' internal risk standards. we used a portion of the reserve announced on january 3, 2008 to reduce the differences between the book and market value of these accounts. this cash infusion was intended to reduce the difference between market and book values of these accounts to levels that are within the risk tolerance of such third-party financial institutions. if the third-party financial institutions are or become unwilling to continue to partner with us, our business may be adversely affected. there can be no assurance that these and other costs associated with our legal exposures resulting from ssga's active fixed income strategies will not exceed the reserve we have established. investment, operational and other decisions and actions, often made to achieve scale and other benefits, are implemented over multiple investment pools as applicable, increasing the opportunity for losses, even small losses, to have a significant effect. to mitigate these risks to the investment pools, we seek to prudently manage the duration and credit exposure of the pools, to satisfy large liquidity demands by the in-kind delivery of securities held by the pools and to closely monitor liquidity demand from investors; however, market conditions or increased defaults could result in our inability to effectively manage those risks. to some degree, all of our investment management pools hold potential risks to our reputation and business prospects if the asset pools that we manage have higher than anticipated redemption or other liquidity requirements and the pools incur losses to meet such demands. other parts of our business where we primarily act as agent, such as other investment management activities of ssga and certain of state street global markets' business units, do not currently have significant liquidity requirements; however, as we develop new products in response to customer demand and to remain competitive in a dynamic marketplace, we could take on more principal risk in these businesses. any increase in the extent to which these or other businesses assume principal positions would increase the risks associated with our liquidity management strategy. the disruption in the global fixed-income securities markets beginning in the third quarter of 2007 has had a substantially greater impact upon liquidity and valuations in those markets than has historically been experienced. because demand from investors for fixed-income products has markedly decreased and dealers have been less prepared to take principal exposures, funding sources, such as the commercial paper markets for conduits, have been less reliable and more expensive. at the same time, the ability of the markets to absorb the sale of large portfolios of certain types of securities has been substantially impaired. these conditions have also led to greater difficulty in accurately valuing portfolio positions. these market conditions have made the management of our own and our clients' liquidity significantly more challenging. as discussed above, the risks to state street inherent in its management of liquidity are significant, and a further deterioration in the credit markets could adversely affect our consolidated financial position, including our regulatory capital ratios, and could adversely affect our results of operations and our business prospects in the future. 13 reputational risk our relationship with many of our customers is predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet client expectations and other issues could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our ability to retain and attract customers. preserving and enhancing our reputation depends not only in maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, but also our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment, and customer expectations. if any of these developments, including our recently announced customer concerns related to certain ssga active fixed income strategies, has a material effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. credit risk our focus on large institutional investors and their businesses requires that we assume credit and counterparty risk, both on- and off-balance sheet, in a variety of forms. we may experience significant intra- and inter-day credit exposure through settlement-related extensions of credit. from time to time, we may assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty, guarantor, industry and/or country level, thereby potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. the credit quality of our on- and off-balance sheet exposures may be affected by many factors, such as economic and business conditions or deterioration in the financial condition of an individual counterparty, group of counterparties or asset classes. if a significant economic downturn occurs in either a country or a region, or we experience the failure of a significant individual counterparty, we could incur financial losses that could adversely affect our earnings. financial markets risk as asset values in worldwide financial markets increase or decrease, our opportunities to invest in and service financial assets change. given that a portion of our fees is based on the value of assets under custody and management, fluctuations in the valuation of worldwide securities markets will affect revenue. many of the costs of providing our services are relatively fixed; therefore, a decline in revenue could have a disproportionate effect on our earnings. in addition, if investment performance in our asset management business fails to meet either benchmarks or the performance of our competitors, we could experience a decline in assets under management and a reduction in the fees that we earn, irrespective of economic or market conditions. we have increased the portion of our management fee revenue that is generated from enhanced index and actively managed products, with respect to which we generally receive higher fees compared to passive products. we may not be able to continue to increase this segment of our business at the same rate that we have achieved in the past few years. the amount of assets in active fixed-income strategies, for example, has been adversely impacted in 2007. in addition, with respect to certain of our enhanced index and actively managed products, we have entered into performance fee arrangements, where the management fee revenue we earn is based on the performance of managed funds against specified benchmarks. the reliance on performance fees increases the potential volatility of our management fee revenue. financial markets trading businesses, as well as our asset and liability management activities, are also subject to market risks. adverse movements in levels and volatilities of financial markets could cause losses that may affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. in addition, changes in investor and rating agency perceptions regarding certain asset classes or structures can also affect volatility, liquidity and market prices, which, in turn, can lead to losses. the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. in general, we benefit from 14 currency volatility, although it can increase risk. foreign exchange revenue, all other things being equal, is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. in addition, as our business grows globally, our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our levels of revenue, expense and earnings, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations. interest rate risk state street's financial performance could be unfavorably affected by changes in interest rates as they impact our asset and liability management process. the levels of global market interest rates, the shape of these yield curves (changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates), the direction and speed of interest rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, affect our net interest revenue. our ability to anticipate these changes and/or to hedge the related exposures on and off our balance sheet can significantly influence the success of our asset and liability management process and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. the impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative durations of assets and liabilities in accordance with their relevant currencies. in general, sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. operational risk operational risk is inherent in all of state street's activities. our customers have a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. we have established policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with these regulatory and operational risk requirements. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or monitoring mechanisms, or other systems or controls, and from external events, which could materially affect our future results of operations. we may also be subject to disruptions from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. in addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be negatively affected. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, their years of industry experience, and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. similarly, the loss of key portfolio management staff, either individually or as a group, can adversely impact customer perception of ssga's ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates. in some of our businesses, we have experienced significant employee turnover, which increases costs, requires additional training and increases the potential for operational risks. we enter into long-term fixed-price contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing services to customers, services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. these long-term contracts require considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services and our ability to control our costs and maintain the relationship with the customer for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. 15 performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. in addition, our failure to meet specified service levels may adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the customer. we actively strive to achieve significant cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations, while continuing to maintain service quality, control and effective management of risks within these business operations. this transition to a true "shared services" operational model focuses on certain core service offerings, including middle- and back-office reconciliations, securities processing and transfer agency activities. we have employed various structural arrangements to achieve these goals, including establishing operations in lower cost areas, such as eastern europe, india and china, forming joint ventures in india and china and outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. during periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exists regarding the continuity of a high level of service delivery. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be impacted by regulatory and customer acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that partially offset the financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. our businesses depend on an information technology infrastructure to record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets. any interruptions, delays and/or breakdowns of this infrastructure can result in significant costs. as a result, we continue to invest significantly in this infrastructure. our businesses and our relationship with customers, are dependent upon our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our customers' trade secrets and confidential information (including personal data of their customers). a failure of our security measures in such regard could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, relationship with customers and reputation. to the extent that we are not able to protect our intellectual property through patents or other means, we are also exposed to the risk that employees with knowledge of such intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own advantage. litigation risks from time to time, our customers may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, such claims may result in financial liability to state street and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, and could impact customer demand for our products and services. we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies, including litigation and operational losses. however, we cannot always accurately estimate our ultimate exposure. as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements, judgments or operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure. any underestimation or overestimation could have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. in connection with certain of ssga's active fixed-income strategies, we established a reserve to cover legal exposure and related costs in connection with such strategies as of december 31, 2007. among other things, the portfolio managers for certain actively managed fixed-income strategies materially increased the exposure of these strategies to securities backed by sub-prime mortgages and shifted the weighting of these portfolios to more highly rated sub-prime instruments. during the third quarter of 2007, as the liquidity and valuations of these securities, including the more highly rated instruments, came under increased pressure, the performance of these strategies was adversely affected, in some cases significantly. the underperformance, which was greater than that typically associated with 16 fixed-income funds, also caused a number of our customers to question whether the execution of these strategies was consistent with their investment intent. this has resulted in several civil suits, including putative class action claims. these lawsuits allege, among other things, that we failed to comply with our standard of care in managing these active funds as a fiduciary under erisa. we have also received inquiries from regulatory authorities regarding ssga's active fixed-income strategies. given our desire to fully respond to customer concerns, following the end of the third quarter of 2007, state street undertook a further review of all the actively managed fixed-income strategies at ssga that were exposed to sub-prime investments. based on our review and on-going discussions with customers who were invested in these strategies, we established the reserve to address our estimated legal exposure. the reserve was established based upon our best judgment as to legal exposures and related costs associated with the active fixed-income investments. as of december 31, 2007, we had entered into settlement agreements with aggregate total payments of $16 million. we believe that our reserve will be adequate to accommodate the potential exposure relating to ssga's active fixed-income strategies. the amount of the reserve is based on certain assumptions. while we believe the reserve represents a reasonable estimate of our legal exposure and other costs associated with these issues, we do not believe that it is feasible to predict or determine the amount of such exposure with certainty. as such, it is possible that we have overestimated or underestimated our exposure. if the amount of our actual exposure is materially different from our reserve, there would be a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. to determine whether the issues that arose within the active fixed-income area are limited to ssga's active fixed-income strategies, we are conducting, with the assistance of third-party consultants, a systematic review of the operational, risk and compliance infrastructure, procedures and resources across ssga's entire product line. this review has only recently begun and no conclusions or recommendations have resulted from that review as of the date of this filing. while we do not believe that such review will identify material legal or regulatory exposures, there can be no assurance as to the conclusions of such review. regulatory/legal/accounting/tax risk most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation, and many of the customers to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulatory and supervisory oversight, both in the united states and overseas in connection with our global operations. our businesses are subject to stringent regulation and examination by u.s. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies, including the federal reserve, the sec and the massachusetts commissioner of banks, and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-u.s. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. the regulations affect, among other things, the scope of our activities and customer services, our capital structure and our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy and the manner in which we market our services. evolving regulations, such as the new basel ii capital framework and anti-money laundering regulations, can require significant effort on our part to ensure compliance. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our financial results. similarly, many of our customers are subject to significant regulatory requirements, and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. if we cause customers to fail to 17 comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers or to maintain access to capital markets, or could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and lawsuits. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. new accounting requirements, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting requirements, by the financial accounting standards board or the sec, can potentially affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations, as accounting rules in the united states and other jurisdictions consistently evolve to reflect the increasing complexities of business. these changes are very difficult to predict, and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of prior period financial statements. our businesses can be affected by new tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. changes in tax laws may affect our business directly or indirectly through their impact on the financial markets. in the normal course of business, we are subject to reviews by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities. these reviews may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxes due and the allocation of taxable income among tax jurisdictions. these adjustments could affect the attainment of our financial goals. risk management we seek to monitor and manage risk on a corporate basis and within specific business units. the types of risk that we monitor and seek to manage include operational risk, interest rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. we have adopted various policies, procedures and systems to monitor and manage risk. there can be no assurance that those policies, procedures or systems are adequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in our various business. in addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. we may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. if our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or our business or for other reasons, we could incur losses. we also measure our material risks. our measurement methodologies rely upon many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. there can be no assurance that those assumptions will be correct or that the historical correlations will continue to be relevant. consequently the measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect those changes. while our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have inadequate capital to conduct our businesses. 25 overview of financial results years ended december 31, 2007(1) 2006 2005 (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) total fee revenue $ 6,599 $ 5,186 $ 4,551 net interest revenue 1,730 1,110 907 provision for loan losses gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net 7 15 (1 ) gain on sale of divested business 16 total revenue 8,336 6,311 5,473 total operating expenses(2) 6,433 4,540 4,041 income from continuing operations before income tax expense 1,903 1,771 1,432 income tax expense from continuing operations 642 675 487 income from continuing operations 1,261 1,096 945 income (loss) from discontinued operations 10 (107 ) net income $ 1,261 $ 1,106 $ 838 earnings per share from continuing operations: basic $ 3.50 $ 3.31 $ 2.86 diluted 3.45 3.26 2.82 earnings per share: basic $ 3.50 $ 3.34 $ 2.53 diluted 3.45 3.29 2.50 average shares outstanding (in thousands): basic 360,675 331,350 330,361 diluted 365,488 335,732 334,636 return on shareholders' equity from continuing operations 13.4 % 16.2 % 15.3 % return on shareholders' equity 13.4 16.4 13.6 (1) financial results for the year ended december 31, 2007 include results of the acquired investors financial business for the third and fourth quarters of 2007. (2) operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2007 include merger and integration costs of $198 million associated with the acquisition of investors financial and a net charge of $467 million related to certain active fixed-income strategies at state street global advisors. summary our financial results for 2007 reflect our overall objectives of consistent revenue growth, managing growth in operating expenses and balancing growth in operating expenses with growth in revenue. all categories of fee revenue, as reported in our consolidated statement of income, increased compared to 2006, with the exception of processing fees and other revenue, which declined 13%. net interest revenue increased 56% compared to 2006. we achieved positive operating leverage for 2007 compared to 2006, as defined by management. our investment management business, state street global advisors, which we refer to in this management's discussion and analysis as "ssga," contributed approximately 18% of our consolidated total revenue for 2007, compared to 19% for 2006, and generated net new business of $116 billion during 2007, compared to $86 billion for 2006. 26 we ended 2007 with levels of assets under custody and assets under management that increased 29% and 13%, respectively, from year-end 2006. we completed our acquisition of currenex in march 2007. for the period march to december 2007, the acquired currenex business contributed approximately $65 million of revenue, primarily other trading services revenue. we completed our acquisition of investors financial in july 2007, and issued approximately 60.8 million shares in the transaction. for the second half of the year, the acquired investors financial business contributed $456 million in revenue, including $395 million in fee revenue, and $340 million in operating expenses. in connection with the acquisition, during the second half of the year we recorded $198 million, or $129 million after-tax, of merger and integration costs. during the second half of 2007, we purchased 13.4 million shares of our common stock, as well as an additional .6 million shares in january 2008, under a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase program, which program concluded on january 18, 2008. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a net pre-tax charge of $467 million, or $279 million after-tax, to establish a reserve associated with certain active fixed-income strategies managed by ssga. certain financial information is presented and discussed in the following sections on both a gaap basis and on an "operating" basis. management measures certain financial information on an operating basis to provide for meaningful comparisons from period to period, and to present comparable financial trends with respect to our normal ongoing business operations. management believes that operating-basis financial information, which includes the impact of revenue from non-taxable sources and excludes the impact of non-recurring expenses, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of state street's underlying performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared in accordance with gaap. financial highlights for 2007, we recorded income from continuing operations of $1.3 billion, or $3.45 per diluted share, compared to $1.1 billion, or $3.26 per diluted share, for 2006. total revenue increased 32% from 2006, and return on equity from continuing operations was 13.4% compared to 16.2% for 2006. results for 2007 included two significant expenses. first, we recorded aggregate merger and integration costs of $198 million, or $129 million after-tax, in connection with our acquisition of investors financial. second, we recorded a net pre-tax charge of $467 million, or $279 million after-tax, in connection with the establishment of a reserve to address legal exposure and other costs associated with the underperformance of certain active fixed-income strategies managed by ssga, and customer concerns as to whether the execution of these strategies was consistent with the customers' investment intent. these costs are more fully discussed in the "consolidated results of operations operating expenses" section of this management's discussion and analysis. our results for 2006 included income from discontinued operations of $10 million (pre-tax income of $16 million reduced by related income tax expense of $6 million), or $.03 per diluted share, the result of the finalization of certain legal, selling and other costs recorded in connection with our divestiture of bel air investment advisors llc. total revenue for 2007 grew 32% from 2006. total fee revenue for 2007, which grew 27%, reflected consistent growth throughout the year in servicing fees and management fees, up 24% and 21%, respectively, compared to 2006, and trading services and securities finance revenue, up 34% and 76%, respectively. generally, servicing fees benefited from the inclusion of the acquired investors financial 27 business, net new business and favorable equity markets, and management fees benefited primarily from net new business and favorable equity markets. trading services revenue grew primarily as a result of increases in customer volumes and the inclusion of the acquired investors financial business, with respect to foreign exchange revenue, and as a result of the inclusion of revenue from the acquired currenex business, with respect to other trading services revenue. securities finance revenue benefited from increases in volumes of securities loaned, both from new customers and from growth in volume from existing customers, and increases in spreads. net interest revenue increased 56% compared to 2006, and net interest margin increased to 1.71% from 1.25%. this growth was the result of several favorable trends (1) favorable rates and volumes on non-u.s. deposits; (2) the addition of interest-earning assets from investors financial's balance sheet; and (3) the favorable impact of fixed-rate investments. total operating expenses increased 42% from 2006, partly reflective of the $665 million aggregate impact of merger and integration costs associated with investors financial and a net pre-tax charge associated with certain ssga active fixed-income strategies. if these aggregate costs are excluded, total operating expenses for 2007 totaled $5.768 billion ($6.433 billion less $665 million), an increase of 27% from $4.54 billion for 2006, as we continued to carefully manage operating expenses and balance growth in operating expenses with growth in revenue. most of the increase resulted from the inclusion of the operating expenses of the acquired investors financial business for the second half of 2007, as well as increased incentive compensation due to improved performance and increased staffing levels to support new business, particularly internationally. excluding the aggregate $665 million of merger and integration costs and the net pre-tax charge, as a result of year-over-year growth in revenue of 32% and year-over-year growth in total operating expenses of 27% as described above, we generated positive operating leverage of approximately 500 basis points. we define positive operating leverage as a rate of total revenue growth that exceeds the rate of growth of total operating expenses, determined on an operating basis. ssga was a significant contributor to our overall results for 2007. its total revenue increased 25% for 2007 over 2006, and comprised about 18% of our total consolidated revenue for 2007, compared to 19% for 2006. in addition, ssga generated net new business in assets under management, which we expect will generate management fee revenue in future years, of approximately $116 billion for 2007, compared to $86 billion for 2006. the decline in ssga's relative contribution to our consolidated total revenue was the result of the impact of the acquired investors financial business's revenue on total revenue of our investment servicing line of business, which increased 34% for 2007 over 2006. we continue to expand our business outside of the u.s., particularly in europe and the asia/pacific region. for 2007, approximately $3.42 billion, or 41% of our consolidated total revenue of $8.336 billion, was generated from non-u.s. activities, compared to 43% for 2006. the 2007 percentage reflects revenue from the acquired investors financial business, which was predominantly generated in the u.s. for illustrative purposes, if we exclude total revenue from the acquired investors financial business for 2007 of $456 million, non-u.s. revenue of $3.42 billion for 2007 comprised approximately 43% of consolidated total revenue for 2007 of $7.88 billion ($8.336 billion less $456 million). at year-end 2007, we employed 9,500 outside the u.s., compared to 8,630 at year-end 2006. our goal is to eventually generate 50% of our consolidated total revenue from outside the united states. assets under custody and assets under management both increased from year-end 2006, with assets under custody at $15.30 trillion, up 29% from $11.85 trillion a year ago, and assets under management at $1.98 trillion, up 13% from $1.75 trillion a year ago. the acquired investors financial business contributed $1.9 trillion of assets under custody. assets under custody have grown at a compound annual rate of 13% since year-end 2003, with u.s. assets growing by 12% and non-u.s. assets growing by 16%, while assets under management have grown at a compound annual rate of 16% over the same period. 28 consolidated results of operations this section discusses our consolidated results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006, and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in this form 10-k under item 8. a comparison of consolidated results of operations for 2006 with those for 2005 is provided in the "comparison of 2006 and 2005 overview of consolidated results of operations" section of this management's discussion and analysis. total revenue years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 change 2006-2007 (dollars in millions) fee revenue: servicing fees $ 3,388 $ 2,723 $ 2,474 24 % management fees 1,141 943 751 21 trading services 1,152 862 694 34 securities finance 681 386 330 76 processing fees and other 237 272 302 (13 ) total fee revenue 6,599 5,186 4,551 27 net interest revenue: interest revenue 5,212 4,324 2,930 21 interest expense 3,482 3,214 2,023 8 net interest revenue 1,730 1,110 907 56 provision for loan losses net interest revenue after provision for loan losses 1,730 1,110 907 56 gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net 7 15 (1 ) gain on sale of private asset management business 16 total revenue $ 8,336 $ 6,311 $ 5,473 32 we are one of the world's leading specialists in servicing mutual funds, other collective investment funds and pension plans. we are consistently gaining business globally, and for 2007, our non-u.s. revenue was approximately 41% of our total revenue, compared to 43% for 2006 and 24% for 2002. we provide a broad range of reliable, easy-to-integrate investment services that are global and enable our customers to develop and launch competitive new investment products. we also provide active management products, including enhanced indexing, hedge fund strategies and quantitative management, and passive investment management products and strategies. we provide fund accounting, custody, investment management, securities finance, transfer agency services, and operations outsourcing for investment managers and hedge fund managers. these services support the complex financial strategies and transactions of our customers worldwide, in any time zone across multiple currencies. our focus on the total needs of the customer allows us to develop active, long-term relationships that result in high customer retention, cross-selling opportunities, and recurring revenue. the servicing markets in which we compete are very price-competitive, and we consistently focus on winning and retaining customer business. this focus requires a strong commitment to customers while constantly working toward providing services at lower costs. our broad range of services generates fee revenue and net interest revenue. fee revenue generated by investment servicing and investment management is augmented by securities finance, trading services and other processing fee revenue. we earn net interest revenue from customers' deposits and short-term investment activities, by providing deposit services and short-term investment vehicles, such as repurchase agreements and commercial paper, to meet customers' needs for high-grade liquid investments, and investing these sources of funds and additional borrowings in assets yielding a higher rate. 29 fee revenue servicing and management fees are the largest components of fee revenue, and collectively comprised approximately 69% of total fee revenue for 2007 and 71% for 2006. these fees are a function of several factors, including the mix and volume of assets under custody and assets under management, securities positions held and the volume of portfolio transactions, and the types of products and services used by customers, and are affected by changes in worldwide equity and fixed-income valuations. generally, servicing fees are impacted, in part, by changes in daily average valuations of assets under custody, while management fees are impacted by changes in month-end valuations of assets under management. additional factors, such as the level of transaction volumes, changes in service level, balance credits, customer minimum balances, pricing concessions and other factors may have a significant impact on servicing fee revenue. generally, management fee revenue is more sensitive to market valuations than servicing fee revenue. management fees also include performance fees, which amounted to approximately 6% of management fees for 2007 compared to 9% for 2006. performance fees are generated when the performance of managed funds exceeds benchmarks specified in the management agreements, and we experience more volatility with performance fees than with more traditional management fees. in light of the above, we estimate, assuming all other factors remain constant, that a 10% increase or decrease in worldwide equity values would result in a corresponding change in our total revenue of approximately 2%. if fixed-income security values were to increase or decrease by 10%, we would anticipate a corresponding change of approximately 1% in our total revenue. the following table presents selected equity market indices. daily averages and the averages of month-end indices demonstrate worldwide equity market valuation changes that impact servicing and management fee revenue, respectively. year-end indices impact the value of assets under custody and management at those dates. the index names listed in the table and elsewhere in this management's discussion and analysis are service marks of their respective owners. index daily averages of indices average of month-end indices year-end indices 2007 2006 change 2007 2006 change 2007 2006 change s&amp;p 500&reg; 1,477 1,310 13 % 1,478 1,318 12 % 1,468 1,418 4 % nasdaq&reg; 2,578 2,263 14 2,588 2,279 14 2,652 2,415 10 msci eafe&reg; 2,212 1,858 19 2,230 1,883 18 2,253 2,074 9 fee revenue years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 change 2006-2007 (dollars in millions) servicing fees $ 3,388 $ 2,723 $ 2,474 24 % management fees(1) 1,141 943 751 21 trading services 1,152 862 694 34 securities finance 681 386 330 76 processing fees and other 237 272 302 (13 ) total fee revenue $ 6,599 $ 5,186 $ 4,551 27 (1) includes performance fees of $72 million, $84 million and $41 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 30 approximately 61% of the $1.4 billion increase in total fee revenue over 2006 was generated from servicing and management fees. servicing fees servicing fees include fee revenue from u.s. mutual funds, collective investment funds worldwide, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments, and other investment pools. products and services include custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; recordkeeping; investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing services; master trust and master custody; and performance, risk and compliance analytics. the increase in servicing fees of $665 million from 2006 primarily resulted from the inclusion of $304 million of servicing fee revenue from the acquired investors financial business, net new business from existing and new customers, higher average equity market valuations and higher customer transaction volumes. net new business is defined as new business net of lost business. for 2007, servicing fees generated from customers outside the u.s. were approximately 41% of total servicing fees, down from 44% in 2006. the decrease in the non-u.s. proportion reflected the contribution of servicing fees from the acquired investors financial business, which are generated predominantly in the u.s. we are the largest provider of mutual fund custody and accounting services in the united states. we distinguish ourselves from other mutual fund service providers by offering customers a broad array of integrated products and services, including accounting, daily pricing and fund administration. we calculate more than 34% of the u.s. mutual fund prices provided to nasdaq that appear daily in the wall street journal and other publications with an accuracy rate of 99.9%. we have a leading position for servicing u.s. tax-exempt assets for corporate and public pension funds. we provide trust and valuation services for more than 4,000 daily-priced portfolios, making us a leader for both monthly and daily valuation services. we are a leading service provider outside of the u.s. as well. in germany, we provide depotbank services for approximately 16% of retail and institutional fund assets. in the united kingdom, we provide custody services for 18% of pension fund assets and provide administration services to more than 24% of mutual fund assets. we service approximately 23% of the hedge fund market and more than $650 billion of offshore assets, primarily domiciled in ireland and luxembourg. we have more than $1 trillion in assets under administration in the asia/pacific region, and are the largest non-domestic trust bank in japan. at year-end 2007, our total assets under custody were $15.30 trillion, compared to $11.85 trillion a year earlier. the value of assets under custody is a broad measure of the relative size of various markets served. changes in the value of assets under custody do not necessarily result in proportional changes in revenue. assets under custody consisted of the following at december 31: assets under custody as of december 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2006-2007 agr 2003-2007 cagr (dollars in billions) mutual funds $ 4,803 $ 3,738 $ 3,442 $ 3,088 $ 3,094 28 % 12 % collective funds 3,199 1,665 1,001 911 1,153 92 29 pension products 3,960 3,713 3,358 3,254 3,026 7 7 insurance and other products 3,337 2,738 2,320 2,244 2,097 22 12 total $ 15,299 $ 11,854 $ 10,121 $ 9,497 $ 9,370 29 13 31 financial instrument mix of assets under custody as of december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in billions) equities $ 8,653 $ 5,821 $ 4,814 fixed-income 4,087 4,035 3,797 short-term and other investments 2,559 1,998 1,510 total $ 15,299 $ 11,854 $ 10,121 geographic mix of assets under custody(1) as of december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in billions) united states $ 11,792 $ 8,962 $ 7,773 other americas 698 607 508 europe/middle east/africa 2,163 1,815 1,454 asia/pacific 646 470 386 total $ 15,299 $ 11,854 $ 10,121 (1) geographic mix is based on the location where the assets are serviced. management fees we provide a broad range of investment management strategies, specialized investment management advisory services and other financial services for corporations, public funds, and other sophisticated investors. these services are offered through ssga. based upon assets under management, ssga is the largest manager of institutional assets worldwide, the largest manager of assets for tax-exempt organizations (primarily pension plans) in the united states, and the third largest investment manager overall in the world. ssga offers a broad array of investment management strategies, including passive and active, such as enhanced indexing and hedge fund strategies, using quantitative and fundamental methods for both u.s. and global equities and fixed income securities. ssga also offers exchange traded funds, or "etfs," such as the spdr&reg; dividend etfs. the $198 million increase in management fees from 2006 primarily resulted from net new business and higher equity market valuations. performance fees decreased from $84 million in 2006 to $72 million in 2007. management fees generated from customers outside the united states were approximately 41% of total management fees, up from 32% for 2006. at year-end 2007, assets under management were $1.98 trillion, compared to $1.75 trillion at year-end 2006. while certain management fees are directly determined by the value of assets under management and the investment strategy employed, management fees reflect other factors as well, including our relationship pricing for customers who use multiple services, and the benchmarks specified in the respective management agreements related to performance fees. accordingly, no direct correlation necessarily exists between the value of assets under management, market indices and management fee revenue. assets under management consisted of the following at december 31: 32 assets under management as of december 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2006-2007 agr 2003-2007 cagr (dollars in billions) equities: passive $ 803 $ 691 $ 625 $ 600 $ 519 16 % 12 % active and other 206 181 147 122 81 14 26 company stock/esop 79 85 76 77 76 (7 ) 1 total equities 1,088 957 848 799 676 14 13 fixed-income: passive 216 180 128 106 81 20 28 active 43 34 28 35 10 26 44 cash and money market 632 578 437 414 339 9 17 total fixed-income and cash 891 792 593 555 430 13 20 total $ 1,979 $ 1,749 $ 1,441 $ 1,354 $ 1,106 13 16 geographic mix of assets under management(1) as of december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in billions) united states $ 1,353 $ 1,202 $ 1,023 other americas 36 30 24 europe/middle east/africa 427 384 275 asia/pacific 163 133 119 total $ 1,979 $ 1,749 $ 1,441 (1) geographic mix is based on the location where the assets are managed. the following table presents a roll-forward of assets under management for the three years ended december 31, 2007: assets under management years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in billions) balance at beginning of year $ 1,749 $ 1,441 $ 1,354 net new business 116 86 36 market appreciation 114 222 51 balance at end of year $ 1,979 $ 1,749 $ 1,441 trading services trading services revenue includes revenue from foreign exchange trading and brokerage and other trading services. we offer a complete range of foreign exchange services under an account model that focuses on the global requirements of our customers to execute trades and receive market insights in any time zone. in march 2007, we acquired currenex's electronic foreign exchange trading platform. the currenex business serves hedge funds, banks and other commercial enterprises in the active-trading segment of the foreign exchange market. we have exclusive ownership of fx connect&reg;, the world's first foreign exchange trading platform, and we provide quantitatively-based research into investor behavior, as well as consultative services that use quantitative tools designed to optimize our 33 customers' returns. foreign exchange trading revenue is influenced by three principal factors: the volume and type of customer foreign exchange transactions; currency volatility; and the management of currency market risks. for 2007, foreign exchange trading revenue increased 31%, to $802 million from $611 million in 2006, and benefited from the disruption in the global securities markets that occurred in the second half of the year. the increase was mainly driven by a 39% increase in customer volumes, but also was the result of the inclusion of $43 million of foreign exchange revenue from the acquired investors financial business. these increases were partly offset by an unfavorable transaction mix influenced by lower margin transactions and a 5% decline in currency volatility. we also offer a range of brokerage and other trading products tailored specifically to meet the needs of the global pension community, including transition management, commission recapture and self-directed brokerage. these products are differentiated by our position as an agent of the institutional investor. brokerage and other trading fees were $350 million in 2007, up 39% compared to 2006. the increase was attributable to the contribution of revenue from the acquired currenex business and an increase in revenue from transition management. securities finance securities finance provides liquidity to the financial markets and an effective means for customers to earn revenue on their existing portfolios. by acting as a lending agent and coordinating loans between lenders and borrowers, we lend securities and provide liquidity to customers around the world. borrowers provide collateral in the form of cash or securities to state street in return for loaned securities. for cash collateral, we pay a usage fee to the provider of the cash collateral, and invest the cash collateral in certain investment vehicles. the spread between the yield on the investment vehicle and the usage fee paid to the provider of the collateral is split between the lender of the securities and state street as agent. for non-cash collateral, the borrower pays a fee for the loaned securities, and the fee is split between the lender of the securities and state street. securities finance revenue is principally a function of the volume of securities loaned and the interest-rate spreads earned on the collateral. for 2007, securities finance revenue increased 76% from a year earlier, as loan volumes increased 30%, with this volume resulting from both new customer demand and increased demand from existing customers. consolidated spread also increased, primarily in the domestic and non-u.s. equity portfolios and the corporate bond and fixed-income portfolios. spreads benefited from reductions in federal funds rates during 2007, as well as from the above-mentioned market disruption. processing fees and other processing fees and other revenue includes diverse types of fees and other revenue, including fees from our structured products business, fees from software licensing and maintenance, profits and losses from unconsolidated subsidiaries, gains and losses on sales of leased equipment and other assets, and amortization of investments in tax-advantaged financings. processing fees and other revenue decreased 13% from 2006, with an additional $32 million of revenue from the acquired investors financial business and improved joint venture performance more than offset by reduced revenue from the structured products business, primarily from the asset-backed commercial paper program, and the absence of revenue from our tax-exempt investment program. the absence of revenue from the tax-exempt investment program resulted from the impact of the consolidation of the program onto our balance sheet on september 30, 2006. as a result of this consolidation, revenue from the program, previously recorded in processing fees and other, is now recorded in net interest revenue. 34 net interest revenue years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 average balance interest revenue/ expense rate average balance interest revenue/ expense rate average balance interest revenue/ expense rate (dollars in millions; fully taxable-equivalent basis) federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements $ 14,402 $ 756 5.25 % $ 12,820 $ 663 5.17 % $ 12,890 $ 412 3.20 % investment securities 70,990 3,649 5.14 61,579 2,956 4.80 51,153 1,817 3.55 loans and leases 10,753 394 3.67 7,670 288 3.75 6,013 193 3.21 other 8,405 471 5.60 10,596 462 4.36 17,730 550 3.10 total interest-earning assets $ 104,550 $ 5,270 5.04 $ 92,665 $ 4,369 4.72 $ 87,786 $ 2,972 3.39 deposits $ 68,220 $ 2,298 3.37 % $ 55,635 $ 1,891 3.40 % $ 49,703 $ 1,132 2.28 % short-term borrowings 22,024 959 4.36 25,699 1,145 4.46 26,708 753 2.82 long-term debt 3,402 225 6.62 2,621 178 6.77 2,461 138 5.63 total interest-bearing liabilities $ 93,646 $ 3,482 3.72 $ 83,955 $ 3,214 3.83 $ 78,872 $ 2,023 2.57 interest-rate spread 1.32 % .89 % .82 % net interest revenue - fully taxable-equivalent basis(1) $ 1,788 $ 1,155 $ 949 net interest margin - fully taxable-equivalent basis 1.71 % 1.25 % 1.08 % net interest revenue gaap basis $ 1,730 $ 1,110 $ 907 (1) amounts include fully taxable-equivalent adjustments of $58 million for 2007, $45 million for 2006 and $42 million for 2005. net interest revenue is defined as the total of interest revenue on interest-earning assets less interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. interest-earning assets, which consist of investment securities, loans and leases and money market assets, are financed primarily by customer deposits and short-term borrowings. additional detail about the components of interest revenue and interest expense is in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, net interest revenue increased 55% (56% on a gaap basis) compared to 2006, and net interest margin increased to 1.71% from 1.25%. this growth was the result of several favorable trends. first, transaction deposit volume, particularly with respect to non-u.s. deposits, increased 28%, and spread increased 29%. volume increases resulted from net new business in non-u.s. assets under custody, as we continue to grow our servicing business internationally, and spreads increased because deposit rates lagged rate increases by foreign central banks during 2006 and 2007. second, the acquired investors financial business added interest-earning assets and related net interest revenue. third, as fixed-rate investment securities matured, they were replaced by higher yielding investments. net interest margin represents the relationship between net interest revenue and average interest-earning assets. changes in the components of interest-earning assets, as well as interest-bearing liabilities, are discussed in more detail below. 35 average federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements increased 12.3% or $1.58 billion, from $12.82 billion in 2006 to $14.40 billion for 2007. the increase was primarily the result of excess liquidity. our average investment securities portfolio increased from approximately $61.58 billion to approximately $70.99 billion, primarily due to the acquisition of investment securities of investors financial and increases in our tax-exempt securities portfolio. the investment portfolio now includes a higher percentage of collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage- and asset- backed securities compared to a year earlier. these increases did not adversely affect overall risk, as we continued to invest conservatively in "aa" and "aaa" rated securities. securities rated "aa" and "aaa" comprised approximately 95% of the investment securities portfolio, with approximately 89% "aaa" rated, at december 31, 2007. loans and leases averaged $10.75 billion, up 40% from $7.67 billion in 2006. the increase was related to higher levels of customer overdraft activity. approximately 70% of the loans and leases portfolio is composed of u.s. and non-u.s. short-duration advances, primarily related to the processing of custodied customer investments, which averaged approximately $7.53 billion for 2007, up from $5.21 billion in 2006. the $12.59 billion increase in average interest-bearing deposits from 2006 was mainly due to the acquisition of investors financial and an increase in low cost customer deposits, primarily non-u.s. deposits. this deposit growth funded the $11.89 billion increase in average interest-earning assets. average short-term borrowings decreased primarily due to the liquidity provided by the increase in customer deposits, and long-term debt increased due to debt issuances associated with the investors financial acquisition. several factors could affect future levels of net interest revenue and margin, including the federal reserve's ongoing actions to manage short-term interest rates, the level and pace of changes in non-u.s. interest rates, particularly as a result of actions of the european central bank and the bank of england, the mix of customer liabilities, and the shapes of the various yield curves around the world. gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale securities, net our management of the investment securities portfolio has many objectives, the foremost of which are to provide liquidity and to serve as a source of collateral for customer activities. these objectives may entail strategic sales of specific securities as market conditions warrant. we recorded net gains of $7 million on sales of available-for-sale securities for 2007, compared to net gains of $15 million for 2006. at december 31, 2007, approximately 94% of the investment securities portfolio, or $70.33 billion, was classified as available for sale. additional information about available-for-sale securities, and the gross gains and losses that comprise the net gains, is in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. 36 operating expenses years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 change 2006 2007 (dollars in millions) salaries and employee benefits $ 3,256 $ 2,652 $ 2,231 23 % information systems and communications 546 501 486 9 transaction processing services 619 496 449 25 occupancy 408 373 391 9 provision for legal exposure 600 merger and integration costs 198 other 806 518 484 56 total operating expenses $ 6,433 $ 4,540 $ 4,041 42 number of employees at year-end 27,110 21,700 20,965 the 23% increase in salaries and employee benefits from 2006 was driven primarily by the inclusion of approximately $180 million of salaries and benefits expense of the acquired investors financial business and salaries and benefits expense of the acquired currenex business, higher incentive compensation costs due to improved performance which were offset by the reduction of incentive compensation recorded as part of the net pre-tax charge related to ssga discussed later in this section, and the impact of higher staffing levels. staffing levels increased to support growth in our investment servicing business, particularly in europe, and in our investment management business, as well as in information technology and risk management. the increase in information systems and communications expense included approximately $21 million from the acquired investors financial business, as well as increased spending internationally to support growth. transaction processing services expenses are volume-related, and include equity trading services and fees related to securities settlement, sub-custodian fees and external contract services. the 25% increase included approximately $39 million from the acquired investors financial business, specifically sub-custody costs, higher transaction volumes, and external contract services, primarily in europe. occupancy expense was up 9% from 2006, primarily due to additional leased space acquired as part of the investors financial acquisition, as well as higher occupancy costs in support of growth in europe. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a net pre-tax charge of $467 million in connection with the establishment of a reserve to address litigation exposure and other costs associated with certain active fixed-income strategies managed by ssga and customer concerns as to whether the execution of these strategies was consistent with customers' investment intent. the net charge had the following components a provision for legal exposure of $625 million offset by $25 million of insurance coverage; a $156 million reduction of salaries and benefits expense related to reduced incentive compensation primarily associated with ssga, offset by $15 million of severance costs; and $8 million of other expenses related to professional fees. more information about this litigation exposure is included in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. during the second half of 2007, in connection with the investors financial acquisition, we recorded merger and integration costs of $198 million. these costs consisted only of direct and incremental costs to integrate the acquired investors financial business into our operations, and did not include on-going expenses of the combined organization. the costs included a non-cash charge of approximately $91 million resulting from the termination of an operating lease related to one of our office buildings in boston. this termination was completed in connection with an overall evaluation of our requirements for office space as a result of the acquisition. 37 the merger and integration costs also included $42 million associated with employee retention and other compensation, and $22 million associated with the integration of the acquired investors financial business's accounting and management systems. in addition, subsequent to the completion of the acquisition, we redeemed an aggregate of $500 million of unsecured junior subordinated debentures issued by the parent company to two of our statutory business trusts, composed of $200 million of 7.94% debentures issued in 1996 and $300 million of 8.035% debentures issued in 1997. we paid the trusts the outstanding amount on the debentures plus accrued interest and an aggregate redemption premium of approximately $20 million, which was included in the merger and integration costs. the 56% increase in other expenses from 2006 primarily resulted from the acquired investors financial business, increases in professional services, securities processing costs, higher sales promotion costs and increased amortization of intangibles that resulted from the acquisitions of investors financial and currenex. income taxes income tax expense totaled $642 million for 2007, compared to $675 million from continuing operations a year ago. the decrease was primarily the result of the absence of the impact of federal tax legislation that increased income tax expense for 2006. the overall effective tax rate for 2007 was 33.7%, compared to 38.1% for 2006. additional information about income tax expense is in note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. the 2006 income tax expense from discontinued operations of $6 million was related to $16 million of income associated with the finalization of certain costs recorded in connection with our divestiture of bel air, which was completed during 2006. information about income tax contingencies related to our leveraged lease portfolio is in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. line of business information we report two lines of business: investment servicing and investment management. given our services and management organization, the results of operations for these lines of business are not necessarily comparable with those of other companies, including companies in the financial services industry. information about revenue, expense and capital allocation methodologies is in note 22 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. the following is a summary of line of business results. results presented exclude the income (loss) from discontinued operations related to our divestiture of bel air. the amount presented in the "other/one-time" column for 2007 represents merger and integration costs recorded in connection with our acquisition of investors financial. the amount presented in the same column for 2005 represents additional gain from our sale of the private asset management business. the amount 38 presented in the net charge line items are associated with the underperformance of certain active fixed-income strategies managed by ssga. investment servicing investment management other/one-time total years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 (dollars in millions, except where otherwise noted) fee revenue: servicing fees $ 3,388 $ 2,723 $ 2,474 $ 3,388 $ 2,723 $ 2,474 management fees $ 1,141 $ 943 $ 751 1,141 943 751 trading services 1,152 862 694 1,152 862 694 securities finance 518 292 260 163 94 70 681 386 330 processing fees and other 162 208 221 75 64 81 237 272 302 total fee revenue 5,220 4,085 3,649 1,379 1,101 902 6,599 5,186 4,551 net interest revenue 1,573 986 826 157 124 81 1,730 1,110 907 provision for loan losses net interest revenue after provision for loan losses 1,573 986 826 157 124 81 1,730 1,110 907 gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net 7 15 (1 ) 7 15 (1 ) gain on sale of divested business $ 16 16 total revenue 6,800 5,086 4,474 1,536 1,225 983 16 8,336 6,311 5,473 operating expenses 4,787 3,742 3,363 981 798 678 5,768 4,540 4,041 net charge: provision for legal exposure 600 600 reduction of incentive compensation (47 ) (109 ) (156 ) severance and professional fees 23 23 total net charge (47 ) 514 467 merger and integration costs $ 198 198 total operating expenses 4,740 3,742 3,363 1,495 798 678 198 6,433 4,540 4,041 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 2,060 $ 1,344 $ 1,111 $ 41 $ 427 $ 305 $ (198 ) $ 16 $ 1,903 $ 1,771 $ 1,432 pre-tax margin 30 % 26 % 25 % 3 % 35 % 31 % average assets (in billions) $ 120.0 $ 103.4 $ 96.9 $ 3.5 $ 3.0 $ 2.9 $ 123.5 $ 106.4 $ 99.8 investment servicing the 34% increase in total revenue from 2006 was primarily driven by increases in servicing fees and trading services and securities finance revenue, as well as a 60% increase in net interest revenue, slightly offset by a decline in processing fees and other revenue. servicing fees increased from 2006 primarily due to the contribution of fees from the acquired investors financial business, increases in net new business from existing and new customers, higher equity valuations and higher customer transaction volumes. the increase in trading services revenue reflected a higher dollar volume of foreign exchange trades for customers and a higher volume of fixed-income transition management business. securities finance revenue increased as a result of higher lending volumes and increased spreads. processing fees and other revenue declined from 2006, primarily as a result of declines in revenue associated with the commercial paper conduits and our 39 tax-exempt investment program, the latter of which was consolidated onto our balance sheet in 2006. revenue from this program is now recorded in net interest revenue. servicing fees, trading services revenue and net gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale securities for our investment servicing business line are identical to the respective consolidated results. refer to the "servicing fees," "trading services" and "gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale securities, net" captions in the "total revenue" section of this management's discussion and analysis for a more in-depth discussion. a discussion of processing fees and other revenue is provided under the caption "processing fees and other" in the "total revenue" section. net interest revenue increased 60% from 2006 due to an increase in average interest-earning assets, including those from the acquired investors financial business, as well as higher yields on our investment securities portfolio a portion of net interest revenue is recorded in the investment management business line based on the volume of customer liabilities attributable to that business. operating expenses increased from 2006, driven primarily by the inclusion of the operating expenses of the acquired investors financial business and currenex, as well as higher incentive compensation costs due to improved performance and the impact of higher staffing levels. staffing levels increased to support growth in business, particularly in europe. transaction processing costs increased due to a higher volume of sub-custodian fees, particularly from the acquired investors financial business. other expenses increased as a result of the inclusion of expenses of the acquired investors financial business, increases in professional services, securities processing costs and increased amortization of intangibles that resulted from the investors financial and currenex acquisitions. investment management total revenue for 2007 increased 25% from 2006. management fees for the investment management business line, which were up 21%, are identical to the respective consolidated results. refer to the "management fees" caption in the "total revenue" section of this management's discussion and analysis for a more in-depth discussion. securities finance revenue for 2007 was up 73% from 2006, reflecting higher lending volumes and increased spreads. net interest revenue improved due to higher volumes of customer liabilities, primarily resulting from the growth of our non-u.s. operations, as well as a more favorable mix of deposits. operating expenses of $981 million, which do not include the net pre-tax charge allocated to investment management of $514 million, increased 23% from $798 million in 2006, primarily due to the cost of increases in staffing levels to support growth in business, and related increases in information systems and communications expenses. the net pre-tax charge was recorded in connection with the establishment of a reserve to address legal exposure and other costs associated with the under-performance of certain active fixed-income strategies managed by ssga and customer concerns as to whether the execution of these strategies was consistent with the customers' investment intent. the net charge had the following components a provision for legal exposure of $625 million offset by $25 million of insurance coverage; a $109 million reduction of salaries and benefits expense related to reduced incentive compensation offset by $15 million of severance costs; and $8 million of other expenses related to professional fees. more information about this charge is included in the "consolidated results of operations operating expenses" section of this management's discussion and analysis. the pre-tax margin for investment management, which is the percentage of the business line's pre-tax income to its total revenue, was 3% for 2007 compared to 35% for 2006 and 31% for 2005. the significant decrease in margin was the result of the net charge described above. without the net charge, investment management's pre-tax income would have been $555 million ($41 million plus $514 million), and its pre-tax margin would have been 36% for 2007. 40 during the second half of 2007, the global markets for fixed-income securities, particularly the markets for financial instruments collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, experienced significant disruption. this disruption affected the liquidity and pricing of securities traded in these markets, as well as the returns of, and levels of redemptions in, investment vehicles investing in those instruments. additional information about the impact of these market conditions on the asset-backed commercial paper conduits administered by state street is provided in the "off balance sheet arrangements" section of this management's discussion and analysis and in the risk factors section included under item 1a of this form 10-k. as of december 31, 2007, global fixed-income assets under management totaled approximately $259 billion, an increase of approximately $45 billion compared to $214 billion at december 31, 2006, with approximately $43 billion under active management. this amount included approximately $6.1 billion of ssga customer assets which were invested in strategies that were adversely affected by a combination of holdings in financial instruments collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, illiquidity in the fixed-income markets generally, and customer redemptions. these strategies included approximately $2.2 billion of institutional customer investments in non-registered pooled investment funds; approximately $2.1 billion of unit investments by other ssga investment funds in the same non-registered pooled investment funds; approximately $1.6 billion of institutional customer investments in separately-managed customer accounts; and approximately $0.2 billion of customer investments in mutual funds. information about recent proceedings, legal exposure and related costs and other similar matters associated with ssga's active fixed-income strategies, including the establishment of a reserve of approximately $625 million, is included in "risk factors litigation risks" included under item 1a; the "consolidated results of operations operating expenses" section of this management's discussion and analysis; and note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k. 41 comparison of 2006 and 2005 overview of consolidated results of operations years ended december 31, 2006 2005 $ change % change (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) total fee revenue $ 5,186 $ 4,551 $ 635 14 % net interest revenue 1,110 907 203 22 provision for loan losses gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net 15 (1 ) 16 gain on sale of divested business 16 (16 ) total revenue 6,311 5,473 838 15 total operating expenses 4,540 4,041 499 12 income from continuing operations before income tax expense 1,771 1,432 339 24 income tax expense from continuing operations 675 487 188 39 income from continuing operations 1,096 945 151 16 income (loss) from discontinued operations 10 (107 ) 117 net income $ 1,106 $ 838 $ 268 32 earnings per share from continuing operations: basic $ 3.31 $ 2.86 $ .45 16 diluted 3.26 2.82 .44 16 earnings per share: basic $ 3.34 $ 2.53 diluted 3.29 2.50 return on shareholders' equity from continuing operations 16.2 % 15.3 % return on shareholders' equity 16.4 % 13.6 % the income from discontinued operations in 2006 of $10 million, or $.03 per share, resulted from the finalization of legal, selling and other costs recorded in connection with our divestiture of bel air. the loss in 2005 of $107 million, or $.32 per share, was the result of our agreement to divest bel air. 42 total revenue years ended december 31, 2006 2005 $ change % change (dollars in millions) fee revenue: servicing fees $ 2,723 $ 2,474 $ 249 10 % management fees 943 751 192 26 trading services 862 694 168 24 securities finance 386 330 56 17 processing fees and other 272 302 (30 ) (10 ) total fee revenue 5,186 4,551 635 14 net interest revenue: interest revenue 4,324 2,930 1,394 48 interest expense 3,214 2,023 1,191 59 net interest revenue 1,110 907 203 22 provision for loan losses net interest revenue after provision for loan losses 1,110 907 203 22 gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net 15 (1 ) 16 gain on sale of private asset management business 16 (16 ) total revenue $ 6,311 $ 5,473 $ 838 15 the increase in total revenue for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily reflected growth in fee revenue, which mainly reflected growth in servicing and management fees, with almost 70% of the overall growth in fee revenue generated from these two services. the increase in servicing fees was the result of new business from existing and new customers, and higher equity market valuations. our business continued to grow outside the u.s., with approximately 44% of our servicing fees derived from non-u.s. customers, up from 40% in 2005. assets under custody increased to $11.85 trillion at december 31, 2006, up 17% from $10.12 trillion a year earlier. the increase in management fees reflected net new business and higher average month-end equity market valuations. approximately 32% of management fees were derived from customers outside the u.s. in 2006, up from 30% for 2005. assets under management increased to $1.75 trillion at december 31, 2006, up $308 billion from $1.44 trillion a year earlier. the growth in trading services revenue, which includes foreign exchange trading and brokerage and other trading revenue, reflected an increase in foreign exchange trading revenue of $143 million, primarily due to increased transaction volumes, a favorable transaction mix related to custody foreign exchange services, and an increase in foreign exchange trading profits. brokerage and other fees increased from $251 million in 2006, up 11% compared to 2005 due to a significant increase in other trading services and trading profits, offset by a slight decrease in brokerage revenue, the result of a decline in commission recapture revenue. the increase in securities finance revenue reflected the effect of improved interest rate spreads and a 22% increase in securities lending volumes. the decline in processing fees and other revenue reflected a decrease of $30 million in payments made by deutsche bank ag in consideration of net interest revenue earned from acquired customer deposits, largely offset by an increase in revenue from our structured products business. the deposits were held by deutsche bank until customers and their related deposits were converted to our systems. net gains on sales of available-for-sale securities of $15 million in 2006 compared to net losses of $1 million in 2005. the increase in net interest revenue reflected an increase in the size of our average balance sheet and the impact of investment securities portfolio repositioning and increasing the average size of the portfolio. 43 operating expenses years ended december 31, 2006 2005 $ change % change (dollars in millions) salaries and employee benefits $ 2,652 $ 2,231 $ 421 19 % information systems and communications 501 486 15 3 transaction processing services 496 449 47 10 occupancy 373 391 (18 ) (5 ) other 518 484 34 7 total operating expenses $ 4,540 $ 4,041 $ 499 12 the increase in operating expenses from 2005 reflected higher expenses for salaries and employee benefits, information systems and communications, transaction processing and other expenses, somewhat offset by a decline in occupancy. the increase in salaries and employee benefits was driven by higher incentive compensation costs due to improved performance, the impact of higher staffing levels associated with the growth of the investment servicing business in europe, annual merit increases and planned benefit increases. information systems and communications expense slightly increased due to higher telecommunications costs and third-party software expenditures to support overseas growth. transaction processing services expenses, which in large part are volume-related, include equity trading services and fees related to securities settlement, sub-custodian fees and external contract services. the increase resulted from a higher transaction volumes, as well as expansion of our operations in europe. occupancy expense decreased primarily due to the absence of the $26 million charge recorded in 2005 related to a long-term sub-lease agreement for space in our headquarters building, offset by a slight increase in energy and other utility costs. the increase in other operating expenses was primarily due to increased costs to support growth initiatives, offset by a decline in professional services fees related to information technology and the restructuring of our global treasury function, which occurred in 2005. income taxes the increase in income tax expense from continuing operations for 2006 compared to 2005 resulted from increased pre-tax earnings, as well as additional income tax expense recorded in 2006 primarily related to federal tax legislation and certain leveraged leases. the effective tax rate for continuing operations for 2006 was 38.1%. our effective rate for 2005 was 34%. the 2005 income tax benefit from discontinued operations of $58 million was related to the loss of $165 million recorded in connection with our agreement to divest bel air in 2005. significant accounting estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with gaap. our significant accounting policies are described in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. the majority of these accounting policies do not involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments or estimates in their application, or the variability of the estimates is not material to the consolidated financial statements. however, certain of these accounting policies, by their nature, require management to make judgments, involving significant estimates and assumptions, about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. these estimates and assumptions are based on information available as of the date of the financial statements, and changes in this information over time could 44 materially impact amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in subsequent financial statements. based on the sensitivity of reported financial statement amounts to the underlying policies, estimates and assumptions, the relatively more significant accounting policies applied by state street have been identified by management as accounting for fair value of financial instruments; accounting for special purpose entities; accounting for goodwill; and accounting for income taxes. these policies require the most subjective or complex judgments, and related estimates and assumptions could be most subject to revision as new information becomes available. an understanding of the judgments, estimates and assumptions underlying these accounting policies is essential in order to understand our reported consolidated financial condition and results of operations. the following is a brief discussion of the above-mentioned significant accounting policies. management of state street has discussed these significant accounting estimates with the examining and audit committee of our board of directors. fair value of financial instruments we carry certain of our assets and liabilities at fair value in our consolidated financial statements, including trading assets, investment securities available for sale and derivative instruments. at december 31, 2007, approximately $75.43 billion of our assets and approximately $4.57 billion of our liabilities were carried at fair value. the fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an arm's length transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. the degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted market prices and observable market inputs. for a significant amount of our assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value, those fair values are determined based upon quotations provided by independent third-party pricing services or observable market inputs, and as a result there is little or no management judgment involved in determining fair value. prices provided by independent third-party pricing services are subject to review by management. in developing their quotations, the independent pricing services seek to utilize observable inputs, including trade and market information. however, because many fixed-income securities do not trade regularly, the pricing services' quotations may also be based on proprietary financial models that incorporate available information, such as benchmarking to similar securities, sector groupings or matrix pricing. quotations may not always be available for some securities or in markets where trading activity has slowed or ceased. when quotations are not available, and are not provided by third-party pricing services, management judgment is necessary to determine fair value. in situations involving management judgment, fair value is determined using discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation models, which incorporate available market information, including appropriate benchmarking to similar instruments, analysis of default and recovery rates, estimation of prepayment characteristics and implied volatilities. discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates. expected cash flows are discounted using market interest rates commensurate with the credit quality and duration of the investment. valuation models use as their basis independently-sourced market inputs including, for example, interest rate yield curves and foreign currency exchange rates. our valuation process using models considers factors such as credit quality, product structure, third-party enhancements and guarantees. we apply judgment in the application of these factors. other factors can affect our estimates of fair value, including market dislocations, incorrect model assumptions and unexpected correlations. these valuation methods could expose us to materially different results should the models used or underlying assumptions be inaccurate. we determine fair value for trading account assets primarily by using quoted market prices for identical or similar instruments in active markets for those securities. fair value for investment 45 securities available for sale is determined using quotations from independent third-party pricing services, which generally are based on observable market inputs for identical or similar instruments in active and non-active markets for those securities. we value derivative instruments primarily by using valuation models. these models generally do not involve material subjectivity because the methodologies used do not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, for instance with over-the-counter interest-rate swap and option contracts, and foreign exchange forward and option contracts. management reviews the fair value of the portfolio at least quarterly, and evaluates individual securities for declines in fair value that may be other than temporary. this review considers factors such as current and expected future interest rates, external credit ratings, dividend payments, the financial health of the issuer and other pertinent information. other pertinent information includes current developments with respect to the issuer, the length of time the cost basis has exceeded the fair value, the severity of the impairment measured as the ratio of fair value to amortized cost and management's intent and ability to hold the security. the review includes all investment securities for which we have issuer specific concerns regardless of quantitative factors. the review considers current economic conditions, adverse situations that might affect our ability to fully collect interest and principal, the timing of future payments, the credit quality and performance of underlying collateral and guarantees and other relevant factors. if declines are deemed other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized and the amortized cost basis of the investment security is written down to its current fair value, which becomes the new cost basis. additional information about fair values of financial instruments and fair value estimates is included in note 24 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k. special purpose entities in the normal course of business, we utilize three types of special purpose entities, referred to as "spes," two of which are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. information about the activities of these spes, which are used in connection with our tax-exempt investment program, our involvement with managed investment vehicles and our asset-backed commercial paper program, is in notes 10 and 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. additional information about spes used in connection with our commercial paper program is provided below. in our role as a financial intermediary, we administer four third-party asset-backed commercial paper conduits, which are structured as bankruptcy-remote, limited liability companies, and which are not included in our consolidated financial statements. these conduits purchase a variety of financial assets from third-party financial institutions, and fund these purchases by issuing commercial paper. the financial assets purchased by the conduits are not originated by us, and we do not hold any equity ownership interest in the conduits. additional information about the conduits and their business activities is in the "off-balance sheet arrangements" section of this management's discussion and analysis and in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k. our accounting for the conduits' activities, and our conclusion that we are not required to include each or all of the conduits' assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, is based on our application of the provisions of fasb interpretation no. 46(r), which governs our accounting for the conduits and which is discussed in more detail in note 11. expected losses, which we estimate using a financial model as described below, form the basis for our application of the provisions of fin 46(r). expected losses, as defined by fin 46(r), are not economic losses. instead, expected losses are calculated by comparing projected possible cash flows, which are probability-weighted, with expected cash flows for the risk(s) the entity was designed to create and distribute; they represent the variability 46 in potential cash flows of the entity's designated risks. we believe that credit risk is the predominant risk that is designed to be created and distributed by these entities. there is also a modest amount of basis risk within each conduit. basis risk arises when commercial paper funding costs move at a different rate than the comparable floating-rate asset benchmark rates (generally libor). this risk is mitigated through the use of derivative instruments, principally basis swaps, which remove this variability from each conduit. accordingly, basis risk is not a significant assumption in the financial model. any credit losses of the conduits would be absorbed by (1) investors in the subordinated debt, commonly referred to as "first-loss notes," issued by the conduits; (2) state street; and (3) the holders of the conduits' commercial paper, in order of priority. the investors in the first-loss notes, which are independent third parties, would absorb the first dollar of any credit loss on the conduits' assets. if credit losses exceeded the first-loss notes, we would absorb credit losses through our credit facilities provided to the conduits. the commercial paper holders would absorb credit losses after the first-loss notes and state street's credit facilities have been exhausted. we have developed a financial model to estimate and allocate each conduit's expected losses. our model has determined that, as of december 31, 2007, the amount of first-loss notes of each conduit held by the third-party investors causes them to absorb a majority of each conduit's expected losses, as defined by fin 46(r), and, accordingly, the investors in the first-loss notes are considered to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits. the aggregate amount of first-loss notes issued by the conduits totaled approximately $32 million as of december 31, 2007. in order to estimate expected losses as required by fin 46(r), we estimate possible defaults of the conduits' assets. these expected losses are allocated to the conduits' variable interest holders based on the order in which actual losses would be absorbed, as described above. we use the model to estimate expected losses based on hundreds of thousands of probability-weighted loss scenarios. these simulations incorporate published rating agency data to estimate expected losses due to credit risk. primary assumptions incorporated into the financial model relative to credit risk variability, such as default probabilities and loss severities, are directly linked to the conduit's underlying assets. these default probabilities and loss severity assumptions vary by asset class and ratings of individual conduit assets. accordingly, the model's calculation of expected losses is significantly affected by the credit ratings and asset mix of each conduit's assets. these statistics are reviewed by management regularly and more formally on an annual basis. if downgrades and asset mix change significantly, or if defaults occur on the conduits' underlying assets, we may conclude that the current level of first-loss notes is insufficient to absorb a majority of the conduits' expected losses. we perform stress tests and sensitivity analyses, with respect to each conduit individually, in order to model potential scenarios that could cause the amount of first-loss notes to be insufficient to absorb the majority of the conduits' expected losses. as part of these analyses, we have identified certain conduit assets that could be more susceptible to credit downgrade because of their underlying credit characteristics. our scenario testing specifically addresses asset classes that have experienced significant price erosion and/or have little observed market activity. examples of scenarios that are designed to measure the sensitivity of the sufficiency of the first-loss notes include performing a downgrade of all assets which have underlying monoline insurance provider support, and a downgrade scenario on certain other conduit securities where our analysis of the timing and amount of expected cash flows for selected security default expectations does not re-affirm the security's current external credit rating. these simulations do not include a scenario whereby all positions are simultaneously downgraded, the possibility of which we consider remote. in addition, a scenario could arise where one or more defaults could be so severe that the associated losses would exhaust the conduits' total first-loss notes currently outstanding. we believe that the current level of first-loss notes of approximately $32 million as of december 31, 2007 is sufficient to support default scenarios that we believe are more likely, including the stress tests previously described. however, in the future, if the determination and allocation of 47 conduit expected losses by the financial model indicates that the current level of first-loss notes is insufficient to absorb a majority of the conduits' expected losses, we would be required to either (1) issue additional first-loss notes to third parties; (2) change the composition of conduit assets; or (3) take other actions in order to avoid being determined to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits. if we were unable to accomplish any of the above, we would be determined to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits, and would be required to consolidate the conduits' assets and liabilities. for illustrative purposes only, if consolidation of all four of the conduits had been required on december 31, 2007, we would have recognized an extraordinary after-tax loss of approximately $530 million in our consolidated statement of income. in addition, the consolidation of the conduit's assets would have had a direct impact on our leverage capital ratios. the illustrative impact of consolidation of the conduits and the assumptions underlying its calculation are discussed in the "off-balance sheet arrangements" section of this management's discussion and analysis. the conduits do not regularly trade their assets. that is, the design of the conduits is such that conduit assets are purchased with the intent to hold to them to their maturities. accordingly, changes in the fair values of the conduits' assets do not impact the day-to-day management of the conduits. however, we closely monitor changes in fair values of the conduits' assets to ensure that the default assumptions in our financial model continue to be appropriate. as of december 31, 2007, total assets in the unconsolidated conduits were approximately $28.76 billion, and the pre-tax unrealized loss on those assets was approximately $850 million, or $530 million after-tax. we believe the fair values of the conduits' assets are impacted by a number of factors, including the lack of liquidity of mortgage- and asset-backed securities, supply and demand imbalance in the market, and a risk aversion premium being demanded by investors for certain asset types. we do not believe that the current fair values of some of the conduits' assets are necessarily indicative of a change in marketplace participants' view of the default probabilities for these assets. goodwill goodwill is created when the purchase price exceeds the assigned value of net assets of acquired businesses, and represents the value attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements being acquired. almost all of our goodwill has resulted from business acquisitions of our investment servicing line of business. as a result, substantially all of the total goodwill recorded in our consolidated statement of condition was recorded by this business line, with the remainder recorded by investment management. the sustained value of the majority of this goodwill is supported ultimately by revenue from our investment servicing business. a decline in earnings as a result of a lack of growth, or our inability to deliver cost-effective services over sustained periods, could lead to a perceived impairment of goodwill, which would be evaluated and, if necessary, be recorded as a write-down of the reported amount of goodwill through a charge to earnings in our consolidated statement of income. on an annual basis, or more frequently if circumstances dictate, management reviews goodwill and evaluates events or other developments that may indicate impairment in the carrying amount. we perform this evaluation at the reporting unit level, which is one level below our two major business lines. the evaluation methodology for potential impairment is inherently complex and involves significant management judgment in the use of estimates and assumptions. we evaluate impairment using a two-step process. first, we compare the aggregate fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. if the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, no impairment exists. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then we compare the "implied" fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, then goodwill impairment is recognized by writing the goodwill down to the implied fair value. the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, as if the unit had been acquired in a business combination and the overall fair value of the unit was the purchase price. 48 to determine the aggregate fair value of the reporting unit being evaluated for goodwill impairment, we use one of two principal methodologies external or independent valuation, using quoted market prices in active markets; or an analysis of comparable recent external sales or market data, such as multiples of earnings or similar performance measures. in limited circumstances, these methodologies are not available, and as such, we estimate future cash flows using present-value techniques. events that may indicate goodwill impairment include significant or adverse changes in the business, economic or political climate; an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; unanticipated competition; and a more-likely-than-not expectation that we will sell or otherwise dispose of a business to which the goodwill relates. our goodwill impairment testing for 2007 indicated that none of our goodwill was impaired. goodwill recorded in our consolidated statement of condition at december 31, 2007 totaled approximately $4.57 billion. additional information about goodwill, including information by line of business, is in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k. income taxes our overall tax position is fundamentally complex, and management judgment is involved in the analysis of income tax assets and liabilities. we are subject to the income tax laws of the u.s., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. these tax laws can be subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the taxing authorities. in establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be adjudicated by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or administrative appeal. management's determination of the likelihood that deferred tax assets can be realized is subjective and involves estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. the realization of deferred tax assets arises from future taxable income, including foreign-source income, and the achievement of tax planning strategies. underlying estimates and assumptions can change over time, influencing our overall tax positions, as a result of unanticipated events or circumstances. management continually monitors and evaluates the worldwide impact of tax legislation, decisions, rulings and other current developments on the estimates and assumptions underlying our calculations of current and deferred taxes and our analysis of the expected realization of deferred tax assets. additional information about income taxes is in notes 10 and 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8 of this form 10-k. 49 financial condition years ended december 31, 2007 average balance 2006 average balance (in millions) assets: interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 7,433 $ 9,621 securities purchased under resale agreements 12,466 12,543 federal funds sold 1,936 277 trading account assets 972 975 investment securities 70,990 61,579 loans 10,753 7,670 total interest-earning assets 104,550 92,665 cash and due from banks 3,272 2,977 other assets 15,660 10,802 total assets $ 123,482 $ 106,444 liabilities and shareholders' equity: interest-bearing deposits: u.s. $ 7,557 $ 2,453 non-u.s. 60,663 53,182 total interest-bearing deposits 68,220 55,635 securities sold under repurchase agreements 16,132 20,883 federal funds purchased 1,667 2,777 other short-term borrowings 4,225 2,039 long-term debt 3,402 2,621 total interest-bearing liabilities 93,646 83,955 noninterest-bearing deposits 10,640 8,274 other liabilities 9,769 7,471 shareholders' equity 9,427 6,744 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 123,482 $ 106,444 overview of consolidated statement of condition the structure of our consolidated statement of condition, or balance sheet, is primarily driven by the liabilities generated by our core investment servicing and investment management businesses. as our customers execute their worldwide cash management and investment activities, they use short-term investments and deposits that constitute the majority of our liabilities. these liabilities are generally in the form of non-interest-bearing demand deposits; interest-bearing transaction account deposits, which are denominated in a variety of currencies; and repurchase agreements, which generally serve as short-term investment alternatives for our customers. our customers' needs and our operating objectives determine the volume, mix and currency denomination of our consolidated balance sheet. deposits and other liabilities generated by customer activities are invested in assets that generally match the liquidity and interest-rate characteristics of the liabilities. as a result, our assets consist primarily of high-quality, marketable securities held in our available-for-sale or held-to-maturity investment securities portfolio and short-term money-market instruments, such as interest-bearing deposits, federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements. the actual mix of assets is determined by the characteristics of the customer liabilities and our desire to maintain a well-diversified portfolio of high-quality assets. managing our consolidated 50 balance sheet structure is a disciplined process conducted within specific board-approved policies for interest-rate risk, credit risk and liquidity. for 2007, the growth in average interest-bearing liabilities of $9.7 billion was primarily composed of a $12.6 billion increase in customer deposits, $7.5 billion of which were foreign, offset by a decline in repurchase agreements of $4.8 billion. these changes are representative of the higher levels of customer activity outside the u.s. average interest-earning assets in 2007 increased $11.9 billion from 2006, consistent with the increased level of customer liabilities. additional information about our average balance sheet, primarily interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, is included in the "consolidated results of operations net interest revenue" section of this management's discussion and analysis. investment securities the carrying values of investment securities were as follows as of december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 available for sale: u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 8,181 $ 7,612 $ 10,214 mortgage-backed securities 14,585 11,454 11,138 asset-backed securities 25,069 25,634 23,842 collateralized mortgage obligations 11,892 8,476 5,527 state and political subdivisions 5,813 3,749 1,868 other debt investments 4,041 3,027 1,695 money-market mutual funds 243 201 232 other equity securities 502 292 463 total $ 70,326 $ 60,445 $ 54,979 held to maturity: u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 757 $ 846 $ 1,657 mortgage-backed securities 940 1,084 925 collateralized mortgage obligations 2,190 2,357 2,086 other investments 346 260 223 total $ 4,233 $ 4,547 $ 4,891 we consider a well-diversified, high-credit quality investment securities portfolio to be an important element in the management of our consolidated balance sheet. the portfolio continues to be concentrated in securities with high credit quality, with approximately 95% of the carrying value of the 51 portfolio "aaa" or "aa" rated. the percentages of the carrying value of the investment securities portfolio by external credit rating were as follows as of december 31: 2007 2006 aaa(1) 89 % 88 % aa 6 6 a 3 4 bbb 1 1 non-rated 1 1 100 % 100 % (1) includes u.s. treasury securities. the investment securities portfolio is also diversified with respect to asset class. the majority of the portfolio is in high-grade mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. the largely floating-rate asset-backed portfolio consists of home-equity loan, credit card, auto- and student-loan securities. mortgage-backed securities are split between securities of federal national mortgage association, federal home loan mortgage corporation and large-issuer collateralized mortgage obligations. as of december 31, 2007, the asset-backed securities in the portfolio included $6.2 billion collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. of this total, 71% were aaa rated and 29% were aa rated. we had $1.105 billion of net pre-tax unrealized losses on available-for-sale investment securities at december 31, 2007, or $678 million after-tax. net pre-tax unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities at december 31, 2006 were $378 million, or $227 million after tax. management considers the aggregate decline in fair value and the resulting net unrealized losses to be temporary and not the result of any material changes in the credit characteristics of the investment securities portfolio. management has the ability and the intent to hold the securities until recovery in market value. we intend to continue managing our investment securities portfolio to align with interest-rate and duration characteristics of our customer liabilities and in the context of our overall balance sheet structure, which is maintained within internally approved risk limits, and in consideration of the global interest-rate environment. even with material changes in unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, we may not experience material changes in our interest-rate risk profile, or experience a material impact on our net interest revenue. additional information about these and other unrealized losses is in notes 3 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. 52 the carrying amounts, by contractual maturity, of debt securities available for sale and held to maturity, and the related weighted-average contractual yields, were as follows as of december 31, 2007: under 1 year 1 to 5 years 6 to 10 years over 10 years (dollars in millions) amount yield amount yield amount yield amount yield available for sale(2): u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 5,683 4.43 % $ 1,072 3.91 % $ 520 6.27 % $ 906 7.63 % mortgage-backed securities 116 4.16 1,384 4.31 4,152 4.90 8,933 5.18 asset-backed securities 1,304 4.68 11,321 5.13 8,223 5.21 4,221 5.21 collateralized mortgage obligations 170 4.90 3,156 5.07 3,617 5.48 4,949 5.45 state and political subdivisions(1) 370 5.94 1,997 5.74 1,644 5.60 1,802 5.41 other investments 1,686 6.46 1,405 5.48 906 5.33 44 5.61 total $ 9,329 $ 20,335 $ 19,062 $ 20,855 held to maturity(2): u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 256 3.89 % $ 501 4.38 % mortgage-backed securities 30 3.95 $ 329 4.85 % $ 581 5.35 % collateralized mortgage obligations 725 4.94 970 5.03 495 5.03 other investments 163 1.99 119 5.81 61 6.02 3 7.16 total $ 419 $ 1,375 $ 1,360 $ 1,079 (1) yields have been calculated on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, using applicable federal and state income tax rates. (2) the maturities of mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are based upon expected principal payments. loans and lease financing u.s. and non-u.s. loans and lease financing as of december 31, and average loans and lease financing, were as follows for the years ended december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 u.s.: commercial and financial $ 9,402 $ 3,480 $ 2,298 $ 1,826 $ 2,344 lease financing 396 415 404 373 395 total u.s. 9,798 3,895 2,702 2,199 2,739 non-u.s.: commercial and financial 4,420 3,137 1,854 526 424 lease financing 1,584 1,914 1,926 1,904 1,858 total non-u.s. 6,004 5,051 3,780 2,430 2,282 total loans $ 15,802 $ 8,946 $ 6,482 $ 4,629 $ 5,021 average loans and lease financing $ 10,753 $ 7,670 $ 6,013 $ 5,689 $ 5,568 at december 31, 2007, approximately 11% of our consolidated total assets consisted of loans and lease financing. the aggregate increase in loans from 2006 reflected an increase in overdrafts, which result primarily from securities settlement activities of our customers. overdrafts included in loans were $11.65 billion and $5.69 billion at december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006, respectively. average 53 overdrafts were approximately $7.53 billion and $5.21 billion for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. these balances do not represent significant credit risk because of their short-term nature, which is generally overnight, the lack of significant concentration, and their occurrence in the normal course of the cash and securities settlement process. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, unearned income included in lease financing was $1.29 billion and $1.01 billion for non-u.s. leases, respectively, and $212 million and $129 million for u.s. leases, respectively. maturities for loan and lease financing categories were as follows as of december 31, 2007: years (in millions) total under 1 1 to 5 over 5 u.s.: commercial and financial $ 9,402 $ 9,372 $ 10 $ 20 lease financing 396 8 388 total u.s. 9,798 9,380 10 408 non-u.s.: commercial and financial 4,420 4,419 1 lease financing 1,584 53 1,531 total non-u.s. 6,004 4,419 54 1,531 total $ 15,802 $ 13,799 $ 64 $ 1,939 the following table presents the classification of loans and leases due after one year according to sensitivity to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2007: (in millions) loans and leases with predetermined interest rates $ 1,973 loans and leases with floating or adjustable interest rates 30 total $ 2,003 cross-border outstandings cross-border outstandings, as defined by bank regulatory rules, are amounts payable to state street by residents of foreign countries, regardless of the currency in which the claim is denominated, and local country claims in excess of local country obligations. these cross-border outstandings consist primarily of deposits with banks, loans and lease financing and investment securities. in addition to credit risk, cross-border outstandings have the risk that, as a result of political or economic conditions in a country, borrowers may be unable to meet their contractual repayment obligations of principal and/or interest when due because of the unavailability of, or restrictions on, foreign exchange needed by borrowers to repay their obligations. 54 cross-border outstandings to countries in which we do business which amounted to at least 1% of our consolidated total assets were as follows as of december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 united kingdom $ 5,951 $ 5,531 $ 2,696 canada 4,565 1,463 australia 3,567 1,519 1,441 netherlands 992 germany 2,944 2,696 4,217 total cross-border outstandings $ 17,027 $ 9,746 $ 10,809 the total cross-border outstandings presented in the table represented 12%, 9% and 11% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. there were no cross-border outstandings to countries which totaled between .75% and 1% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2007. aggregate cross-border outstandings to countries which totaled between .75% and 1% of our consolidated total assets at december 31, 2006, amounted to $1.05 billion (canada) and at december 31, 2005, amounted to $1.86 billion (belgium and japan). capital regulatory and economic capital management both use key metrics evaluated by management to ensure that our actual level of capital is commensurate with our risk profile, is in compliance with all regulatory requirements, and is sufficient to provide us with the financial flexibility to undertake future strategic business initiatives. regulatory capital our objective with respect to regulatory capital management is to maintain a strong capital base in order to provide financial flexibility for our business needs, including funding corporate growth and supporting customers' cash management needs, and to provide protection against loss to depositors and creditors. we strive to maintain an optimal level of capital, commensurate with our risk profile, on which an attractive return to shareholders will be realized over both the short and long term, while protecting our obligations to depositors and creditors and satisfying regulatory requirements. our capital management process focuses on our risk exposures, our capital position relative to our peers, regulatory capital requirements and the evaluations of the major independent credit rating agencies that assign ratings to our public debt. the capital committee, working in conjunction with the asset and liability committee, referred to as "alco," oversees the management of regulatory capital, and is responsible for ensuring capital adequacy with respect to regulatory requirements, internal targets and the expectations of the major independent credit rating agencies. the primary regulator of both state street and state street bank for regulatory capital purposes is the federal reserve board. both state street and state street bank are subject to the minimum capital requirements established by the federal reserve board and defined in the federal deposit insurance corporation improvement act of 1991. state street bank must meet the regulatory capital thresholds for "well capitalized" in order for the parent company to maintain its status as a financial holding company. 55 regulatory capital ratios and related regulatory guidelines for state street and state street bank were as follows as of december 31: regulatory guidelines state street state street bank minimum well capitalized 2007 2006 2007 2006 regulatory capital ratios: tier 1 risk-based capital 4 % 6 % 11.2 % 13.7 % 11.2 % 12.0 % total risk-based capital 8 10 12.7 15.9 12.7 14.1 tier 1 leverage ratio(1) 4 5 5.3 5.8 5.5 5.6 (1) regulatory guideline for well capitalized applies only to state street bank. at december 31, 2007, state street's and state street bank's regulatory capital ratios decreased compared to year-end 2006. growth in capital from earnings and the issuance of our common stock to acquire investors financial were offset by the repurchase of our common stock under the accelerated share repurchase program and the impact of goodwill and other intangible assets recorded in connection with the currenex and investors financial acquisitions. total risk-weighted assets increased year over year, as balance sheet risk-weighted assets, partly from the investors financial acquisition, and off-balance sheet equivalent risk-weighted assets both grew from year-end 2006. all ratios for state street and state street bank exceeded the regulatory minimum and well-capitalized thresholds. to manage fluctuations in the tier 1 and total risk-based capital of state street and state street bank resulting from foreign currency translation, we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge a portion of our net foreign investment in non-u.s. subsidiaries. the notional value of these contracts was &euro;100 million, or approximately $146 million, at december 31, 2007. in 2004, the committee on banking supervision released the final version of its capital adequacy framework, commonly referred to as "basel ii". in 2006, the four u.s. banking regulatory agencies jointly issued their second draft of implementation rules, with industry comment provided by the end of march 2007. additional supervisory guidance from the agencies was released late in february 2007; comments to the agencies were provided by the end of may 2007, and the final rules were released on december 7, 2007, with a stated effective date of april 1, 2008. state street previously established a comprehensive implementation program to ensure these regulatory requirements are met within prescribed timeframes. we anticipate adopting the most advanced approaches for assessing capital adequacy. in march 2007, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 15 million shares of common stock for general corporate purposes, including mitigating the dilutive impact of shares issued under employee benefit plans, in addition to its previous authorization in 2006 of up to 15 million shares, of which 12.2 million shares remained available for purchase at december 31, 2006. we generally employ third-party broker-dealers to acquire shares on the open market in connection with our stock purchase program. under the above-described authorization, during 2007 we repurchased 13.4 million shares of our common stock, and an additional .6 million shares in january 2008, in connection with a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase program that concluded on january 18, 2008. as of that date, approximately 13.2 million shares remain available for future purchase under the combined authorization described above. we have increased our quarterly dividend twice each year since 1978. over the last ten years, dividends per share have grown at a 15% compound annual growth rate. funds for cash distributions to our shareholders by the parent company are derived from a variety of sources. the level of dividends 56 to shareholders on our common stock, which totaled $320 million in 2007, is reviewed regularly and determined by the board of directors considering our liquidity, capital adequacy and recent earnings history and prospects, as well as economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant. federal and state banking regulations place certain restrictions on dividends paid by subsidiary banks to the parent holding company. in addition, bank regulators have the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if they deem such payment to be an unsafe or unsound practice. information concerning limitations on dividends from our subsidiary banks is in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. economic capital we define economic capital as the common equity required to protect debt holders against unexpected economic losses over a one-year period at a level consistent with the solvency of a firm with our target "aa" debt rating. our entire economic capital process is the responsibility of our capital committee. the framework and methodologies used to quantify economic capital for each of the risk types described below have been developed by our enterprise risk management, global treasury and finance groups, and are designed to be generally consistent with our risk management principles. this framework has been approved by senior management and has been reviewed by the executive committee of the board. due to the evolving nature of quantification techniques, we expect to periodically refine the methodologies used to estimate our economic capital requirements, which could result in a different amount of capital needed to support our risk profile. we quantify capital requirements for the risks inherent in our business activities and group them into one of the following broadly-defined categories: market risk: the risk of adverse financial impact due to fluctuations in market prices, primarily as they relate to our trading activities interest-rate risk: the risk of loss in non-trading asset and liability management positions, primarily the impact of adverse movements in interest rates on the repricing mismatches that exist between balance sheet assets and liabilities credit risk: the risk of loss that may result from the default or downgrade of a borrower or counterparty operational risk: the risk of loss from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events business risk: the risk of adverse changes in our earnings from business factors, including changes in the competitive environment, changes in the operational economics of business activities, and the effect of strategic and reputation risks economic capital for each of these five categories is estimated on a stand-alone basis using statistical modeling techniques applied to internally generated and, in some cases, external data. these individual results are then aggregated at the state street consolidated level. a capital reduction or diversification benefit is then applied to reflect the unlikely event of experiencing an extremely large loss in each risk type at the same time. liquidity the objective of liquidity management is to ensure that we have the ability to meet our financial obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner, and that we maintain sufficient flexibility to fund strategic corporate initiatives as they arise. effective management of liquidity involves assessing the potential mismatch between the future cash needs of our customers and our available sources of cash under normal and adverse economic and business conditions. uses of liquidity consist primarily of meeting deposit withdrawals; funding outstanding commitments to extend credit or purchase securities 57 as they are drawn upon; overdraft facilities; and liquidity asset purchase agreements. liquidity is provided by the maintenance of broad access to the global capital markets and our balance sheet asset structure. global treasury is responsible for the day-to-day management of our global liquidity position, which is conducted within risk guidelines established and monitored by alco. management maintains a liquidity measurement framework to assess the sources and uses of liquidity that is continuously monitored by global treasury and enterprise risk management. embedded in this framework is a process that outlines several levels of potential risk to our liquidity and identifies "triggers" that we use as early warning signals of a possible difficulty. these triggers are a combination of internal and external measures of potential increases in cash needs or decreases in available sources of cash and possible impairment of our ability to access the global capital markets. another important component of the framework is a contingency funding plan that is designed to identify and manage through a potential liquidity crisis. the plan defines roles, responsibilities and management actions to be undertaken in the event of a deterioration in our liquidity profile caused by either a state street-specific event or a broader disruption in the capital markets. specific actions are linked to the levels of "triggers." we generally manage our liquidity risk on a global basis at the consolidated level. we also manage parent company liquidity, and in certain cases branch liquidity, separately. state street bank generally has broader access to funding products and markets limited to banks, specifically the federal funds market and the federal reserve's discount window. the parent company is managed to a more conservative liquidity profile, reflecting narrower market access. we typically hold enough cash, primarily in the form of interest-bearing deposits with subsidiary banks, to meet current debt maturities and cash needs, as well as those projected over the next one-year period. sources of liquidity come from two primary areas: access to the global capital markets and liquid assets maintained on our consolidated balance sheet. our ability to source incremental funding at reasonable rates of interest from wholesale investors in the capital markets is the first source of liquidity we would tap to accommodate the uses of liquidity described below. on-balance sheet liquid assets are also an integral component of our liquidity management strategy. these assets provide liquidity through maturities of the assets, but more importantly, they provide us with the ability to raise funds by pledging the securities as collateral or through outright sales. each of these sources is used in the management of daily cash needs and in a crisis scenario where we would need to accommodate potential large, unexpected demand for funds. uses of liquidity result from four primary areas: withdrawals of unsecured customer deposits; draws on unfunded commitments to extend credit or purchase securities, generally provided through lines of credit; overdraft facilities; and liquidity asset purchase agreements supporting the four commercial paper conduits that we administer. customer deposits are generated largely from our investment servicing activities, and are invested in a combination of term investment securities and short-term money market assets whose mix is determined by the characteristics of the deposits. most of the customer liabilities are payable upon demand or are short-term in nature, which means that withdrawals can potentially occur quickly and in large amounts. similarly, customers can request disbursement of funds under commitments to extend credit, or can overdraw deposit accounts rapidly and in large volumes. material risks to sources of short-term liquidity would include, among other things, external rating agency downgrades of our deposits and debt securities, which would restrict our ability to access the capital markets and may lead to withdrawals of unsecured deposits by our customers. in addition, a large volume of unanticipated funding requirements, such as fundings under liquidity asset purchase agreements that have met draw conditions, or large draw-downs of existing lines of credit, could require additional liquidity. during the summer of 2007, the disruption in the global fixed-income securities 58 markets, which largely stemmed from sub-prime mortgages and securities collateralized by them and later spread to asset-backed securities in general, caused us to invoke some elements of our contingency funding plan, resulting in more active monitoring of our liquidity position and more frequent reporting to management. of primary concern was our ability to replace maturing commercial paper issued by the conduits. as more fully discussed in the "off-balance arrangements" section of this management's discussion and analysis, we have been able to reissue the paper, but with some difficulty and at higher rates of interest because of a significant decline in the demand for asset-backed commercial paper in the market generally. one action we have taken to improve our liquidity position has been the issuance of term wholesale certificates of deposit and the placement of those funds into short-term money market assets where they would be available to meet cash needs. this portfolio stood at $4.57 billion as of december 31, 2007. it is important to note that we did not experience any deterioration in our customer deposit base; it was stable to growing during 2007. while maintenance of our high investment-grade credit rating is of primary importance to our liquidity management program, on-balance sheet liquid assets represent significant liquidity that we can directly control, and provide a source of cash in the form of principal maturities and the ability to borrow from the capital markets using our securities as collateral. our liquid assets consist primarily of short-term money-market assets, such as federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits with banks, the latter of which are multicurrency instruments invested with major multinational banks; and high-quality, marketable investment securities not already pledged, which generally are more liquid than other types of assets and can be sold or borrowed against to quickly generate cash. as of december 31, 2007, the cash value of our liquid assets, as defined, totaled $55.14 billion. securities carried at $39.84 billion as of december 31, 2007 were designated as pledged for public and trust deposits, borrowed funds and for other purposes as provided by law, and are excluded from the liquid assets calculation. included in liquid assets are securities that have been pledged to the federal reserve bank of boston in order to secure our ability to borrow from the discount window should the need arise. this access to the discount window, including the federal reserve's recently announced term auction facility, is an important source of back-up liquidity for state street bank. as of december 31, 2007, we had no outstanding borrowings from the discount window. based upon our level of liquid assets and our ability to access the capital markets for additional funding when necessary, management considers overall liquidity at december 31, 2007 more than sufficient to meet state street's current commitments and business needs, including accommodating the transaction and cash management needs of its customers. in april 2007, the parent company issued $700 million of senior debt, consisting of $250 million of floating-rate notes due in 2012 and $450 million of 5.375% notes due in 2017. in addition, state street capital trust iv, a delaware statutory trust wholly owned by the parent company, issued $800 million in aggregate liquidation amount of floating-rate capital securities and used the proceeds to purchase a like amount of floating-rate junior subordinated debentures from the parent company. the capital securities represent an undivided preferred beneficial interest in those junior subordinated debentures, which are the only assets of the trust. the junior subordinated debentures have an initial scheduled maturity in june 2037 and an initial final repayment date in june 2067, each of which we may extend by ten years in specified circumstances. in accordance with existing accounting standards, we did not record the trust in our consolidated financial statements. the junior subordinated debentures qualify for inclusion in tier 1 regulatory capital. in connection with the issuance of the junior subordinated debentures, the parent company entered into a replacement capital covenant in which it agreed, for the benefit of the holders of its junior subordinated debentures due 2028 underlying the floating-rate capital securities issued by state street capital trust i, that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the newly issued debentures or the floating-rate capital securities on or before june 1, 2047, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of 59 the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the covenant. in july 2007, we redeemed an aggregate of $500 million of unsecured junior subordinated debentures issued by the parent company to two of our statutory business trusts, state street capital trusts a and b, composed of $200 million of 7.94% debentures issued in 1996 and $300 million of 8.035% debentures issued in 1997. we paid the trusts the outstanding amount on the debentures plus accrued interest and an aggregate redemption premium of approximately $20 million. this redemption premium was included in the merger and integration costs which we recorded during the third quarter of 2007 in connection with the investors financial acquisition. additional information about these costs is in the "consolidated results of operations operating expenses" section of this management's discussion and analysis. in july 2007, the trusts, consistent with the terms of their applicable governing documents, redeemed their respective outstanding capital securities, with an aggregate liquidation amount of $500 million, corresponding to the debentures. the trusts paid to the holders of the outstanding capital securities the same amount that was paid by the parent company to the trusts to redeem the debentures. in january 2008, state street capital trust iii, a delaware statutory trust wholly owned by the parent company, issued $500 million in aggregate liquidation amount of 8.250% fixed-to-floating rate normal automatic preferred enhanced capital securities, referred to as "normal apex," and used the proceeds to purchase a like amount of remarketable 6.001% junior subordinated debentures due 2042 from the parent company. in addition, the trust entered into stock purchase contracts with the parent company under which the trust agrees to purchase, and the parent company agrees to sell, on the stock purchase date, a like amount in aggregate liquidation amount of the parent company's non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, series a, $100,000 liquidation preference per share. state street will make contract payments to the trust at an annual rate of 2.249% of the stated amount of $100,000 per stock purchase contract. the normal apex are beneficial interests in the trust. the trust will pass through, as distributions on or the redemption price of normal apex, amounts that it receives on its assets that are the corresponding assets for the normal apex. the corresponding assets for each normal apex, $1,000 liquidation amount, initially are $1,000 principal amount of the 6.001% junior subordinated debentures and a 1/100 th , or a $1,000, interest in a stock purchase contract for the purchase and sale of one share of the series a preferred stock for $100,000. the stock purchase date is expected to be march 15, 2011, but it may occur on an earlier date or as late as march 15, 2012. from and after the stock purchase date, the corresponding asset for each normal apex will be a 1/100 th , or a $1,000, interest in one share of the series a preferred stock. in accordance with existing accounting standards, we did not record the trust in our consolidated financial statements. the 6.001% junior debentures qualify for inclusion in tier 1 regulatory capital. as stated previously, our ability to maintain consistent access to liquidity is fostered by the maintenance of high investment-grade ratings on our debt, as measured by the major independent credit rating agencies. factors essential to retaining high credit ratings include diverse and stable core earnings; strong risk management; strong capital ratios; diverse liquidity sources, including the global capital markets and customer deposits; and strong liquidity monitoring procedures. high ratings on debt minimize borrowing costs and enhance our liquidity by ensuring the largest possible market for our debt. a downgrade or reduction of these credit ratings could have an adverse impact to our ability to access funding at favorable interest rates. following our january 3, 2008 announcement of a net charge to establish a reserve associated with certain active fixed-income strategies managed by ssga, the major national rating agencies affirmed their ratings for state street and state street bank. however, moody's investors service and fitch changed their outlook from stable to negative. these 60 changes have not had a material impact on our liquidity position or on our ability to access the global capital markets at reasonable rates of interest. standard &amp; poor's moody's investors service fitch dbrs state street corporation: short-term commercial paper a-1 + p-1 f1 + r-1(mid) senior debt aa - aa3 aa - aa (low) subordinated debt a + a1 a + a (high) capital securities a a1 a + a (high) state street bank: short-term deposits a-1 + p-1 f1 + r-1(high) long-term deposits aa aa1 aa aa senior debt aa - aa1 aa - aa subordinated debt aa - aa2 a + aa (low) outlook stable negative negative stable contractual cash obligations payments due by period as of december 31, 2007 (in millions) total less than 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years over 5 years long-term debt(1) $ 7,339 $ 188 $ 357 $ 877 $ 5,917 operating leases 1,880 225 418 324 913 capital lease obligations 823 52 104 104 563 total contractual cash obligations $ 10,042 $ 465 $ 879 $ 1,305 $ 7,393 (1) long-term debt above excludes capital leases (reported as a separate line item) and the effect of interest-rate swaps. interest payments were calculated at the stated rate with the exception of floating-rate debt, for which payments were calculated using the indexed rate in effect on december 31, 2007. the obligations presented in the table are recorded in our consolidated statement of condition at december 31, 2007. the table does not include obligations which will be settled in cash, primarily in less than one year, such as deposits, federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings. additional information about deposits, federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings is in notes 7 and 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. the table does not include obligations related to derivative instruments, because the amounts included in our consolidated statement of condition at december 31, 2007 related to derivatives do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid under the contracts. additional information about derivative contracts is in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. we have obligations under pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, which are more fully described in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, which are not included in the above table. additional information about contractual cash obligations related to long-term debt and operating and capital leases is in notes 9 and 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the consolidated statement of cash flows, included in this form 10-k under item 8, provides additional liquidity information. 61 other commercial commitments tenure of commitment as of december 31, 2007 (in millions) total amounts committed(1) less than 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years over 5 years indemnified securities financing $ 558,368 $ 558,368 liquidity asset purchase agreements 34,947 29,321 $ 1,569 $ 2,379 $ 1,678 unfunded commitments to extend credit 17,404 13,555 1,175 2,599 75 standby letters of credit 4,505 925 2,567 1,002 11 total commercial commitments $ 615,224 $ 602,169 $ 5,311 $ 5,980 $ 1,764 (1) total amounts committed are reported net of participations to independent third parties. additional information about the commercial commitments disclosed in this section is in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. risk management the global scope of our business activities requires that we balance what we perceive to be the primary risks in our businesses with a comprehensive and well-integrated risk management function. the measurement, monitoring and mitigation of risks are essential to the financial performance and successful management of our businesses. these risks, if not effectively managed, can result in current losses to state street as well as erosion of our capital and damage to our reputation. our systematic approach also allows for a more precise assessment of risks within a framework for evaluating opportunities for the prudent use of capital. we have a disciplined approach to risk management that involves all levels of management. the board of directors provides extensive review and oversight of our overall risk management programs, including the approval of key risk management policies and the periodic review of state street's key risk indicators. these indicators are designed to identify major business activities of state street with significant risk content, and to establish quantifiable thresholds for risk measurement. key risk indicators are reported regularly to the executive committee of the board, and are reviewed periodically for appropriateness. modifications to the indicators are made to reflect changes in our business activities or refinements to existing measurements. enterprise risk management, or erm, a dedicated corporate group, provides oversight, support and coordination across business units and is responsible for the formulation and maintenance of enterprise-wide risk management policies and guidelines. in addition, erm establishes and reviews approved limits, and with business line management, monitors key risks. the head of erm meets regularly with the board or a board committee, as appropriate, and has the authority to escalate issues as necessary. the execution of duties in the management of people, products, business operations and processes is the responsibility of business unit managers. the function of risk management is responsible for designing, orchestrating and directing the implementation of risk management programs and processes consistent with corporate and regulatory standards. accordingly, risk management is a shared responsibility between erm and the business lines and requires joint efforts in goal setting, program design and implementation, resource management, and performance evaluation between business and functional units. responsibility for risk management is overseen by a series of management committees. the major risk committee, or mrc, is responsible for the formulation and recommendation of policies, and the approval of guidelines and programs governing the identification, analysis, measurement and control of material risks across state street. chaired by the head of erm, the mrc focuses on the review of 62 business activities with significant risk content and the assessment of risk management programs and initiatives. the capital committee, chaired by the chief financial officer, oversees the management of our regulatory and economic capital, the determination of the framework for capital allocation and strategies for capital structure and debt and equity issuances. alco, chaired by the treasurer, oversees the management of our consolidated balance sheet, including management of our global liquidity and interest-rate risk positions. the fiduciary review committee reviews the criteria for the acceptance of fiduciary duties, and assists our business lines with their fiduciary responsibilities executed on behalf of customers. the credit committee, chaired within erm, acts as the credit policy committee for state street. the operational risk committee, chaired within erm, provides cross-business oversight of operational risk to identify, measure, manage and control operational risk in an effective and consistent manner across state street. the model assessment committee, chaired within erm, provides unbiased recommendations concerning technical modeling issues and independently validates qualifying financial models utilized by our businesses. several other committees with specialized risk management functions report to the mrc. corporate audit serves in a complementary role to our program of risk management, providing the board and management with continuous monitoring and control assessments to ensure adherence to state street's policies and procedures and the effectiveness of its system of internal controls. additionally, the internal control environment is evaluated through external examinations and regulatory compliance efforts. the corporate compliance, regulatory and industry affairs, and legal groups also serve essential roles in risk management. corporate compliance is responsible for the design, implementation and oversight of policies, guidelines and programs to ensure our compliance with applicable laws and regulations wherever we conduct business. the regulatory and industry affairs group monitors proposed changes in rules and legislation, and the legal group provides counsel that enables us to deal with complex legal and regulatory environments, maximize business opportunities and minimize legal, regulatory and other risks. while we believe that our risk management program is effective in managing the risks in our businesses, external factors may create risks that cannot always be identified or anticipated. for example, a material counterparty failure or a default of a material obligor could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. market risk market risk is defined as the risk of adverse financial impact due to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and other market-driven rates or prices. we are exposed to market risk both in our trading and non-trading, or asset and liability management, activities. we manage our overall market risk through a comprehensive risk management framework. this framework includes risk management groups that report independently to senior management through erm. the process of managing market risk for these activities, discussed in further detail below, applies to both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposures. trading activities we primarily engage in trading and investment activities to serve our customers' needs and to contribute to overall corporate earnings and liquidity. in the conduct of these activities, we are subject to, and assume, market risk. the level of market risk that we assume is a function of our overall objectives and liquidity needs, customer requirements and market volatility. interest-rate risk, a component of market risk, is more thoroughly discussed in the "asset and liability management" portion of this "market risk" section. market risk associated with foreign exchange and trading activities is controlled through established limits on aggregate and net open positions, sensitivity to changes in interest rates, and 63 concentrations, which are supplemented by stop-loss thresholds. we use an array of risk management tools and methodologies, including value-at-risk, to measure, monitor and control market risk. all limits and measurement techniques are reviewed and adjusted as necessary on a regular basis by business managers, the market risk management group and the trading and market risk committee. we use a variety of derivative financial instruments to support customers' needs, conduct trading activities and manage our interest-rate and currency risk. these activities are designed to create trading revenue or to hedge volatility in net interest revenue. in addition, we provide services related to derivative financial instruments in our role as both a manager and servicer of financial assets. our customers use derivative financial instruments to manage the financial risks associated with their investment goals and business activities. with the growth of cross-border investing, customers have an increasing need for foreign exchange forward contracts to convert currency for international investment and to manage the currency risk in international investment portfolios. as an active participant in the foreign exchange markets, we provide foreign exchange forward contracts and options in support of these customer needs. as part of our trading activities, we assume positions in the foreign exchange and interest-rate markets by buying and selling cash instruments and using derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign exchange and interest-rate options and interest-rate swaps. as of december 31, 2007, the notional amounts of all of these derivative financial instruments were $796.19 billion, of which $732.01 billion were foreign exchange forward contracts. in the aggregate, long and short foreign exchange forward positions are closely matched to minimize currency and interest-rate risk. all foreign exchange contracts are valued daily at current market rates. we use a variety of risk measurement and estimation techniques, including value-at-risk. value-at-risk is an estimate of potential loss for a given period within a stated statistical confidence interval. we use a system of risk management to estimate value-at-risk daily for all material trading positions. we have adopted standards for estimating value-at-risk, and we maintain capital for market risk in accordance with applicable regulatory guidelines. value-at-risk is estimated for a 99% one-tail confidence interval and an assumed one-day holding period using a historical observation period of greater than one year. a 99% one-tail confidence interval implies that daily trading losses should not exceed the estimated value-at-risk more than 1% of the time, or approximately three days out of the year. the methodology uses a simulation approach based on observed changes in market prices and takes into account the resulting diversification benefits provided from the mix of our trading positions. like all quantitative risk measures, value-at-risk is subject to certain limitations and assumptions inherent in the methodology. our methodology gives equal weight to all market-rate observations regardless of how recently the market rates were observed. the estimate is calculated using static portfolios consisting of positions held at the end of the trading day. implicit in the estimate is the assumption that no intraday action is taken by management during adverse market movements. as a result, the methodology does not represent risk associated with intraday changes in positions or intraday price volatility. 64 the following table presents market risk related to our trading activities as measured by our value-at-risk methodology: value-at-risk 2007 2006 years ended december 31, (in millions) annual average maximum minimum annual average maximum minimum foreign exchange products $ 1.8 $ 4.0 $ .7 $ 1.7 $ 4.3 $ .7 interest-rate products 1.4 3.7 .1 .8 1.8 .2 we compare daily profits and losses from trading activities to estimated one-day value-at-risk. for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we did not experience any trading losses in excess of our end-of-day value-at-risk estimate. asset and liability management activities the primary objective of asset and liability management is to provide sustainable and growing net interest revenue, or "nir," under varying economic environments, while protecting the economic values of our balance sheet assets and liabilities from the adverse effects of changes in interest rates. most of our nir is earned from the investment of deposits generated by our core investment servicing and investment management businesses. we structure our balance sheet assets to generally conform to the characteristics of our balance sheet liabilities, but we manage our overall interest-rate risk position in the context of current and anticipated market conditions and within internally approved risk guidelines. our overall interest-rate risk position is maintained within a series of policies approved by the board and guidelines established and monitored by alco. our global treasury unit has responsibility for managing state street's day-to-day interest-rate risk. to effectively manage the consolidated balance sheet and related nir, global treasury has the authority to take a limited amount of interest-rate risk based on market conditions and its views about the direction of global interest rates over both short-term and long-term time horizons. global treasury manages our exposure to changes in interest rates on a consolidated basis, and they have organized themselves into three regional treasury units, north america, europe, and asia/pacific, to reflect the growing, global nature of our exposures and to capture the impact of change in regional market environments on our total risk position. our investment activities and our use of derivative financial instruments are the primary tools used in managing interest-rate risk. we invest in financial instruments with currency, repricing, and maturity characteristics we consider appropriate to manage our overall interest-rate risk position. in addition to on-balance sheet assets, we use certain derivatives, primarily interest-rate swaps, to alter the interest-rate characteristics of specific balance sheet assets or liabilities. the use of derivatives is subject to alco-approved guidelines. additional information about our use of derivatives is in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. as a result of growth in our non-u.s. operations, non-u.s. dollar denominated customer liabilities are a significant portion of our consolidated balance sheet. this growth results in exposure to changes in the shape and level of non-u.s. dollar yield curves, which we include in our consolidated interest-rate risk management process. because no one individual measure can accurately assess all of our risks to changes in rates, we use several quantitative measures in our assessment of current and potential future exposures to changes in interest rates and their impact on net interest revenue and balance sheet values. net interest revenue simulation is the primary tool used in our evaluation of the potential range of possible net interest revenue results that could occur under a variety of interest-rate environments. we also use 65 market valuation and duration analysis to assess changes in the economic value of balance sheet assets and liabilities caused by assumed changes in interest rates. finally, gap analysis the difference between the amount of balance sheet assets and liabilities re-pricing within a specified time period is used as a measurement of our interest-rate risk position. to measure, monitor, and report on our interest-rate risk position, we use (1) nir simulation, or "nir-at-risk," which measures the impact on nir over the next twelve months to immediate, or "rate shock," and gradual, or "rate ramp," changes in market interest rates; and (2) economic value of equity, or "eve," which measures the impact on the present value of all nir-related principal and interest cash flows of an immediate change in interest rates. nir-at-risk is designed to measure the potential impact of changes in market interest rates on nir in the short term. eve, on the other hand, is a long-term view of interest-rate risk, but with a view toward liquidation of state street. both of these measures are subject to alco-established guidelines, and are monitored regularly, along with other relevant simulations, scenario analyses and stress tests by both global treasury and alco. in calculating our nir-at-risk, we start with a base amount of nir that is projected over the next twelve months, assuming that the then-current yield curve remains unchanged over the period. our existing balance sheet assets and liabilities are adjusted by the amount and timing of transactions that are forecasted to occur over the next twelve months. that yield curve is then "shocked," or moved immediately, &plusmn;100 basis points in a parallel fashion, or at all points along the yield curve. two new twelve-month nir projections are then developed using the same balance sheet and forecasted transactions, but with the new yield curves, and compared to the base scenario. we also perform the calculations using interest rate ramps, which are &plusmn;100 basis point changes in interest rates that are assumed to occur gradually over the next twelve-month period, rather than immediately as we do with interest-rate shocks. eve is based on the change in the present value of all nir-related principal and interest cash flows for changes in market rates of interest. the present value of existing cash flows with a then-current yield curve serves as the base case. we then apply an immediate parallel shock to that yield curve of &plusmn;200 basis points and recalculate the cash flows and related present values. a large shock is used to better capture the embedded option risk in our mortgage-backed securities that results from the borrower's prepayment opportunity. key assumptions used in the models described above include the timing of cash flows; the maturity and repricing of balance sheet assets and liabilities, especially option-embedded financial instruments like mortgage-backed securities; changes in market conditions; and interest-rate sensitivities of our customer liabilities with respect to the interest rates paid and the level of balances. these assumptions are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the models cannot precisely calculate future nir or predict the impact of changes in interest rates on nir and economic value. actual results could differ from simulated results due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of changes in interest rates and market conditions, changes in spreads and management strategies, among other factors. projections of potential future streams of nir are assessed as part of our forecasting process. the following table presents the estimated exposure of nir for the next twelve months, calculated as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, due to an immediate &plusmn; 100 basis point shift in then-current interest rates. estimated incremental exposures presented below are dependent on management's assumptions about asset and liability sensitivities under various interest-rate scenarios, such as those previously discussed, and do not reflect any actions management may undertake in order to mitigate some of the adverse effects of interest-rate changes on state street's financial performance. 66 nir-at-risk estimated exposure to net interest revenue (in millions) 2007 2006 rate change: +100 bps shock $ (98 ) $ (90 ) -100 bps shock 7 52 +100 bps ramp (44 ) (57 ) -100 bps ramp 20 46 the following table presents estimated eve exposures, calculated as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, assuming an immediate and prolonged shift in interest rates, the impact of which would be spread over a number of years. economic value of equity estimated exposure to economic value of equity (in millions) 2007 2006 rate change: +200 bps shock $ (1,195 ) $ (1,023 ) - 200 bps shock 48 371 with respect to the december 31, 2007 information presented in the tables above, the balance sheet of investors financial is reflected in the estimated nir-at-risk and the estimated eve exposure. information for prior periods was not restated. the incremental increases in the levels of nir-at-risk and eve exposure to upward shifts in interest rates are largely attributable to increased purchases of fixed-rate securities in the first quarter of 2007, slower projected prepayment speeds for mortgage-backed securities effective in the fourth quarter of 2007, and the contribution of the acquired investors financial business during the third quarter of 2007. while the dollar amount of nir-at-risk increased, its rate of increase was lower than the reported growth rate for nir. while the measures presented in the tables above are not a prediction of future nir or valuations, they do suggest that if all other variables remained constant, in the short term, falling interest rates would lead to nir that is higher than it would otherwise have been, and rising rates would lead to lower nir. other important factors that impact the levels of nir are balance sheet size and mix; interest-rate spreads; the slope and interest-rate level of u.s. dollar and non-u.s. dollar yield curves and the relationship between them; the pace of change in market interest rates; and management actions taken in response to the preceding conditions. one of the most important assumptions in our management of interest rate risk is the response of customer liabilities to changes in market interest rates. as such, we regularly reassess the characteristics of customer liabilities. our most recent assessment was completed during the second quarter of 2007 and resulted in a small lengthening in the estimated duration of customer liabilities. the impact of this longer estimated duration for customer liabilities reduced both nir-at-risk and eve exposure to increases in market interest rates, partially mitigating the factors responsible for higher interest-rate risk detailed above. credit risk credit and counterparty risk is defined as the risk of financial loss if a borrower or counterparty is either unable or unwilling to repay borrowings or settle in accordance with contractual terms. the extension of credit and acceptance of counterparty risk by state street are governed by corporate 67 guidelines based on the prospective customer's risk profile, the markets served, counterparty and country concentrations, and regulatory compliance. our focus on large institutional investors and their businesses requires that we assume concentrated credit risk in a variety of forms to certain highly-rated entities. this concentration risk is mitigated by comprehensive guidelines and procedures to monitor and manage all aspects of credit and counterparty risk that we undertake. exposures are evaluated on an individual basis at least annually. we provide, on a limited basis, traditional loan products and services to key customers and prospects in a manner that enhances customer relationships, increases profitability and minimizes risk. we employ a relationship model in which credit decisions are based upon credit quality and the overall institutional relationship. this model is typical of financial institutions that provide credit to institutional customers in the markets that we serve. an allowance for loan losses is maintained to absorb probable credit losses in the loan portfolio and is reviewed regularly by management for adequacy. an internal rating system is used to assess potential risk of loss based on customer investment profile, current economic and/or customer financial indicators. the provision for loan losses is a charge to earnings to maintain the overall allowance for loan losses at a level considered adequate relative to the level of credit risk in the loan and lease financing portfolio. no provision was recorded in either 2007, 2006 or 2005. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the allowance for loan losses was $18 million. changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows for the years ended december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004(1) 2003 u.s.: balance at beginning of year $ 18 $ 18 $ 17 $ 43 $ 43 provision for loan losses (15 ) loan charge-offs commercial and financial recoveries commercial and financial reclassification (14 ) balance at end of year u.s. 18 18 17 14 43 non-u.s.: balance at beginning of year 1 18 18 provision for loan losses (3 ) reclassification (11 ) balance at end of year non-u.s. 1 4 18 total balance at end of year $ 18 $ 18 $ 18 $ 18 $ 61 (1) in 2004, we reclassified $25 million of the allowance for loan losses to other liabilities as a reserve for off-balance sheet commitments. subsequent to the reclassification, the reserve for off-balance sheet commitments was reduced by $10 million, and recorded as an offset to other operating expenses. we also reversed $18 million through the provision for loan losses as a result of reduced credit risk exposures and improved credit quality. past-due loans are loans on which principal or interest payments are over 90 days delinquent, but where interest continues to be accrued. there were no past-due loans as of december 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003. we generally place loans on non-accrual status once payments are 60 days past due, or earlier if management determines that full collection is not probable. loans 60 days past due, but considered both well-secured and in the process of collection, may be excluded from non-accrual status. for loans 68 placed on non-accrual status, revenue recognition is suspended. there were no non-accrual loans at year-end 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003. we purchase securities under agreements to resell. risk is minimized by establishing the acceptability of counterparties; limiting purchases almost exclusively to low-risk u.s. government securities; taking possession or control of transaction assets; monitoring levels of underlying collateral; and limiting the duration of the agreements. securities are revalued daily to determine if additional collateral is necessary from the borrower. most repurchase agreements are short-term, with maturities of less than 90 days. we also provide customers with off-balance sheet liquidity and credit enhancement facilities in the form of letters of credit, lines of credit and liquidity asset purchase agreements. these exposures are subject to an initial credit analysis, with detailed approval and review processes. these facilities are also actively monitored and reviewed on an annual basis. we maintain a separate reserve for probable credit losses related to certain of these off-balance sheet activities. management reviews the adequacy of this reserve on a regular basis. on behalf of our customers, we lend their securities to creditworthy banks, broker/dealers and other institutions. in most circumstances, we indemnify our customers for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. though these transactions are well-collateralized, the substantial volume of these activities necessitates thorough credit-based underwriting and monitoring processes. state street requires the borrowers to provide collateral in an amount equal to or in excess of 100% of the fair market value of the securities borrowed. collateral funds received in connection with our securities lending services are held by us as agent and are not recorded in our consolidated statement of condition. the borrowed securities and collateral are revalued daily to determine if additional collateral is necessary. state street held, as agent, cash and securities totaling $572.93 billion and $527.37 billion as collateral for indemnified securities financing at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. processes for credit approval and monitoring are in place for other credit extensions. as part of the approval and renewal process, appropriate due diligence is conducted based on the size and term of the exposure, as well as the quality of the counterparty. exposures to these entities are aggregated and evaluated by erm. investments in debt and equity securities, including investments in affiliates, are monitored regularly by corporate finance and erm. to the extent necessary, procedures are in place for evaluating potentially impaired securities, as discussed in notes 1 and 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. total non-performing investment securities were $3 million and $4 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. operational risk we define operational risk as the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. as a leading provider of services to institutional investors, our customers have a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. active management of operational risk is an integral component of all aspects of our business, and responsibility for the management of operational risk lies with every individual at state street. our operational risk policy statement defines operational risk and details roles and responsibilities for managing operational risk. the policy statement is reinforced by the operational risk guidelines, which codify our approach to operational risk. the guidelines document our sound practices and provide a mandate within which programs, processes, and regulatory elements are implemented to ensure that operational risk is identified, measured, managed and controlled in an effective and consistent manner across state street. 69 we maintain an operational risk governance structure to ensure that responsibilities are clearly defined and to provide independent oversight of operational risk management. business units periodically review the status of the business controls and monitor and report key risk indicator results. erm oversees the overall operational risk management program. the mrc and the operational risk committee review key risk indicators and policies related to operational risk, provide oversight to ensure compliance with the operational risk program, and escalate operational risk issues of note to the executive committee of the board. corporate audit performs independent reviews of the application of operational risk management practices and methodologies and reports to the examining and audit committee of the board. state street's internal control environment is designed to provide a sound operational environment. our discipline in managing operational risk provides the structure to identify, evaluate, control, monitor, measure, mitigate and report operational risk. business risk we define business risk as the risk of adverse changes in our earnings related to business factors, including changes in the competitive environment, changes in the operational economics of business activities and the potential effect of strategic and reputation risks, not already captured as market, interest-rate, credit or operational risks. we incorporate business risk into our assessment of our economic capital needs. active management of business risk is an integral component of all aspects of our business, and responsibility for the management of business risk lies with every individual at state street. it is sometimes difficult to separate the effects of a potential material adverse event into operational and business risks. for instance, the direct financial impact of an unfavorable event in the form of fines or penalties would be classified as an operational risk loss, while the impact on our reputation and the potential loss of customers and corresponding decline in revenue would be classified as a business risk loss. an additional example of business risk is the integration of a major acquisition. failure to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business, and the resultant inability to retain customers, would be classified as a business risk loss. business risk is managed with a long-term focus. techniques include the careful development of business plans and appropriate management oversight. the potential impact of the various elements of business risk is difficult to quantify with any degree of precision. we use a combination of historical earnings volatility, scenario analysis, stress-testing and management judgment to help assess the potential effect on state street attributable to business risk. management and control of business risks are generally the responsibility of the business units as part of their overall and strategic planning and internal risk management processes. off-balance sheet arrangements in the normal course of business, we hold assets under custody and assets under management in a custodial or fiduciary capacity for our customers, and, in accordance with gaap, we do not record these assets in our consolidated statement of condition. similarly, collateral funds associated with our securities finance activities are held by us as agent; therefore, we do not record these assets in our consolidated statement of condition. additional information about these and other off-balance sheet activities is in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. in the normal course of business, we utilize derivative financial instruments to support our customers' needs, to conduct trading activities and to manage our interest-rate and foreign currency risk. additional information about our use of derivatives is in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. 70 in the normal course of business, we utilize three types of special purpose entities, referred to as spes, two of which are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. information about the activities of these spes, which are used in connection with our tax-exempt investment program, our involvement with managed investment vehicles and our asset-backed commercial paper conduits, is in notes 10 and 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. additional information about the commercial paper conduits is provided below. the risks associated with providing administration, liquidity, and/or credit enhancements to these special purpose entities are reviewed as part of our corporate risk management process in a manner that is consistent with applicable policies and guidelines. we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and have provided adequate credit reserves to cover any risks associated with these activities. asset-backed commercial paper programs as further described in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8, we administer four third-party-owned, special-purpose, multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper programs, commonly referred to as "conduits," the first of which was established in 1992. these conduits, which are structured as bankruptcy-remote entities and are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements under existing accounting standards, are designed to satisfy the demand of our institutional customers, particularly mutual fund customers, for commercial paper. total assets in the four unconsolidated conduits were approximately $28.76 billion at december 31, 2007 and $25.25 billion at december 31, 2006. the conduits obtain funding through the issuance of commercial paper and hold diversified portfolios of investments, which are predominately composed of securities purchased in the capital markets. these investments are collateralized by mortgages, student loans, automobile and equipment loans and credit card receivables, most of which securities are investment grade. conduit assets are not sourced from our consolidated balance sheet. the following tables provide additional information regarding the composition of the conduits' asset portfolios, in the aggregate, as of december 31, 2007. as of this date, none of the conduits' portfolio securities were predominantly collateralized by sub-prime real estate mortgages. conduit assets by collateral type amount percent of total conduit assets (dollars in billions) australian residential mortgage-backed securities $ 4.7 16 % european residential mortgage-backed securities 4.7 16 u.s. residential mortgage-backed securities 4.2 15 united kingdom residential mortgage-backed securities 2.3 8 student loans 3.3 11 auto and equipment loans 2.8 10 credit cards 2.0 7 other(1) 4.8 17 total conduit assets $ 28.8 100 % (1) "other" included trade receivables, collateralized debt obligations, business/commercial loans and other financial instruments. no individual asset class represented more than 2% of total conduit assets, except trade receivables, which were 3% of total conduit assets. 71 conduit assets by credit rating amount percent of total conduit assets (dollars in billions) aaa/aaa $ 17.7 61 % aa/aa 4.5 16 a/a 2.3 8 bbb/baa 1.5 5 not rated(2) 2.8 10 total conduit assets $ 28.8 100 % (2) these assets reflect structured transactions. the transactions have been reviewed by rating agencies and have been structured to maintain the conduits' p1 or similar rating. conduit assets by asset origin amount percent of total conduit assets (dollars in billions) u.s. $ 12.2 42 % australia 6.1 21 great britain 2.9 10 spain 1.9 7 italy 1.9 7 portugal 0.7 2 germany 0.7 2 netherlands 0.5 2 greece 0.3 1 other 1.6 6 total conduit assets $ 28.8 100 % since the conduits were first organized beginning in 1992, we have entered into contractual obligations in the form of liquidity asset purchase agreements to support most or all of the liquidity of the conduits. we also provide credit enhancement to the conduits in the form of standby letters of credit. other institutions can and do provide contractual liquidity to the conduits. as provided for in these agreements, we provide back-up liquidity in the event that the conduits cannot meet their funding needs through the issuance of commercial paper. in the event that maturing commercial paper cannot be reissued into the market by the conduits' dealer group, we and the other institutions providing liquidity may be required to provide liquidity by purchasing portfolio assets from the conduits. state street may also provide liquidity by purchasing commercial paper or providing other extensions of credit to the conduits. as of december 31, 2007, state streets' commitments under these liquidity asset purchase agreements and back-up lines of credit totaled approximately $28.37 billion, and our commitments under standby letters of credit totaled $1.04 billion. the conduits generally sell commercial paper to third-party investors; however, we sometimes purchase commercial paper from the conduits. at december 31, 2007, we held on our consolidated balance sheet an aggregate of approximately $2 million of commercial paper issued by the conduits. the highest total overnight position in the conduits' commercial paper held by state street was approximately $1.25 billion during 2007. this was higher than the levels of commercial paper we have historically held, and was reflective of both the reduced liquidity in the asset-backed commercial paper markets during the third and fourth quarters and our desire to provide short-term stability to funding costs given the lack of liquidity in the marketplace. there were no draw-downs on the liquidity asset purchase agreements or standby letters of credit during 2007. 72 as the third quarter of 2007 progressed and investors became increasingly concerned about the credit quality of the underlying assets generally held in asset-backed commercial paper conduits and similar vehicles, the resulting reduction in liquidity in the global fixed-income securities markets made the funding of the state street-administered conduits more challenging than in normal market conditions, and the yields that issuers had to pay on asset-backed commercial paper increased. consistent with the experience of other market participants, commercial paper was generally being placed by the state street-administered conduits with shorter maturities and higher investor yields than historically experienced. this compressed the spread between the rate earned on the conduits' assets and the conduits' funding costs. the weighted-average maturity of the conduits' commercial paper was approximately 20 days as of december 31, 2007, compared to approximately 23 days as of december 31, 2006. however, the conduits continue to roll over the commercial paper as it matures, i.e., place the commercial paper with market participants, including state street. we intend to continue to manage the liquidity of the programs, if and as needed, through purchases of commercial paper as necessary; however, if due to further deterioration in the liquidity of the fixed-income markets or otherwise, it would become necessary to purchase assets from the conduits, we anticipate that we could fund those purchases. during 2007, we did not experience any losses in our role as a liquidity and credit enhancement provider to the conduits, although the margins that we generated from administration of the conduits were lower than the levels historically achieved on commercial paper issued by the conduits. the fee revenue we generated from our involvement with the conduits was approximately $66 million for 2007, $62 million for 2006 and $58 million for 2005. we earn fees from our role as administrator, liquidity or credit enhancement provider and as one of the dealers, which fees are priced on a market basis. these fees are recorded in processing fees and other revenue in our consolidated statement of income. our overall conduit business activities generated pre-tax income, which included the fee revenue described above, of approximately $23 million for 2007, compared to pre-tax income of $49 million for 2006 and $45 million for 2005. the decrease in this income from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from the change in fair value of basis swaps, as well as other conduit operating expenses. as described above, we provide the conduits with contractual liquidity in the form of liquidity asset purchase agreements. if a conduit experienced a problem with an asset, such as a default or credit rating downgrade, subject to certain conditions, the liquidity asset purchase agreement could be invoked by the conduit, requiring state street to purchase the asset from the conduit at prices which may exceed the fair value of the assets. if that occurred, we would be required to recognize a loss upon purchase of the asset. any loss from a credit default would first be offset by the level of funding provided by the first-loss note holders. currently, in light of the recent reduction in liquidity in the markets, with spreads on virtually all asset classes except u.s. treasuries having widened, we expect that an asset purchase would result in a loss. this loss may be recovered in future periods, depending on state street's actions after the asset is purchased and market conditions. it is also possible that we would be required to consolidate one or more of the conduits' assets and liabilities onto our consolidated balance sheet. this consolidation would occur if we were determined to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits as defined in fin 46(r). for example, if we updated our expected loss model assumptions as a result of changes in market conditions or a downgrade of securities, we may be required to increase the amount of first-loss notes in order for the investors in the first-loss notes to continue to be considered the primary beneficiaries of the conduits. if the conduits are not able to issue additional first-loss notes or take other actions, we may be determined to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits, and would be required to consolidate the conduits' assets and liabilities onto our consolidated balance sheet. additional information about our use of an expected loss model and the third-party investors in first-loss notes is provided in the "significant accounting estimates special purpose entities" section of this management's discussion and analysis and in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under 73 item 8. our accounting treatment of the conduits is reviewed at least quarterly, and more frequently if specific events warrant. as a result of the events in the global fixed-income securities markets, we reviewed the underlying assumptions incorporated in our fin 46(r) expected loss model. we concluded as of december 31, 2007, that our model assumptions were appropriate and were reflective of market participant assumptions, and appropriately considered the probability of, and potential for, the recurrence of these events. if consolidation were to occur because we were determined to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits as defined in fin 46(r), we would consolidate the conduits' assets and liabilities onto our consolidated balance sheet at fair value. we expect that we would recognize an extraordinary loss on the date of consolidation if the fair value of the conduits' liabilities exceeded the fair value of the conduits' assets, as they do currently. this loss would be recovered back into income over the remaining lives of the assets, assuming that the assets were held to maturity and that we recovered the full principal amount of the securities. purchasing or consolidating all or a significant portion of the assets of the conduits would affect the size and composition of our consolidated balance sheet and alter our financial and regulatory capital ratios, and may affect our earnings. in light of our continued ability to manage the liquidity of the commercial paper, we do not currently anticipate that this action will become necessary. however, for illustrative purposes only, assuming estimated fair values of the conduits' assets as of december 31, 2007, if all of the conduits' assets were purchased under the liquidity asset purchase agreements, or if the conduits' assets and liabilities were consolidated onto our consolidated balance sheet, we estimate that we would recognize an after-tax loss of approximately $530 million in our consolidated statement of income. this estimate assumes that all of the conduits, with total assets of approximately $28.76 billion as of december 31, 2007, are consolidated on that date; that the assets of the conduits are recorded at fair value, which is based on state street's consistent application of its pricing policies for conduit assets; and that the pre-tax loss is tax-effected at a 40% marginal income tax rate. if this consolidation were to occur in the future, or we were required to purchase assets pursuant to the liquidity asset purchase agreements at prices in excess of the fair value of the assets, the ultimate amount of loss will be based upon market conditions at the date such a determination is made, which could differ from the estimate provided above. if the assets were consolidated for accounting purposes pursuant to fin 46(r), we expect that this loss would be recorded as an extraordinary loss, after income from continuing operations. if we were to purchase the assets under the liquidity asset purchase agreements, to the extent that a loss was incurred, we expect that the loss would be recognized in continuing operations. we consider the activities of the conduits in our liquidity management process, as more fully described in the "liquidity" section of this management's discussion and analysis. we would be able to access multiple sources of liquidity to fund required asset purchases, including sales of other assets, asset repurchase agreements, the issuance of corporate commercial paper, the issuance of bank certificates of deposit and time deposits, and accessing the federal reserve discount window or similar facilities in other jurisdictions in which we maintain significant banking operations. the consolidation of the conduits for accounting purposes alone would not require additional funding or liquidity for the conduits to fund their asset portfolios. however, if the reasons for consolidation related to an inability of the conduits to issue commercial paper, the conduits would require additional liquidity. if we were required to consolidate the conduits' assets and liabilities, our regulatory capital ratios would be negatively impacted for a period of time. with respect to regulatory capital, the consolidation of the conduits' assets and liabilities would cause a reduction of our tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios. the impact of consolidation on our tier 1 leverage ratio would be more significant, but the 74 degree of impact would depend on how and when consolidation occurred, since this ratio is a function of our consolidated total average assets over an entire quarter. assuming estimated fair values of the conduits' assets as of december 31, 2007, priced as described above, if all of the conduits' assets and liabilities were consolidated onto our consolidated balance sheet on december 31, 2007, and no other management actions were taken with respect to regulatory capital, the following table presents the estimated impact on state street's and state street bank's regulatory capital ratios. state street state street bank reported as of december 31, 2007 adjusted as of december 31, 2007 reported as of december 31, 2007 adjusted as of december 31, 2007 tier 1 leverage ratio 5.3 % 4.9 % 5.5 % 5.0 % tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 11.2 10.3 11.2 10.3 total risk-based capital ratio 12.7 11.8 12.7 11.8 recent accounting developments information with respect to recent accounting developments is in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this form 10-k under item 8. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth in the "market risk" section of "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," included in this form 10-k under item 7, is incorporated by reference herein. 75 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data additional information about restrictions on the transfer of funds from state street bank to the parent company is included in this form 10-k under item 5, and in the "financial condition capital" section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7. report of independent registered public accounting firm the shareholders and board of directors of state street corporation we have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of condition of state street corporation as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2007. these financial statements are the responsibility of the corporation's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of state street corporation at december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2007, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the effectiveness of state street corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated february 14, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. as discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2007 the corporation has adopted financial accounting standards board staff position fas 13-2, "accounting for a change or projected change in the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes generated by a leveraged lease transaction" and financial accounting standards board interpretation no. 48, "accounting for uncertainty in income taxes." boston, massachusetts february 14, 2008 76 consolidated financial statements consolidated statement of income years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) fee revenue: servicing fees $ 3,388 $ 2,723 $ 2,474 management fees 1,141 943 751 trading services 1,152 862 694 securities finance 681 386 330 processing fees and other 237 272 302 total fee revenue 6,599 5,186 4,551 net interest revenue: interest revenue 5,212 4,324 2,930 interest expense 3,482 3,214 2,023 net interest revenue 1,730 1,110 907 provision for loan losses net interest revenue after provision for loan losses 1,730 1,110 907 gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net 7 15 (1 ) gain on sale of private asset management business 16 total revenue 8,336 6,311 5,473 operating expenses: salaries and employee benefits 3,256 2,652 2,231 information systems and communications 546 501 486 transaction processing services 619 496 449 occupancy 408 373 391 provision for legal exposure 600 merger and integration costs 198 other 806 518 484 total operating expenses 6,433 4,540 4,041 income from continuing operations before income tax expense 1,903 1,771 1,432 income tax expense from continuing operations 642 675 487 income from continuing operations 1,261 1,096 945 income (loss) from discontinued operations before income tax expense 16 (165 ) income tax expense (benefit) from discontinued operations 6 (58 ) income (loss) from discontinued operations 10 (107 ) net income $ 1,261 $ 1,106 $ 838 earnings per share from continuing operations: basic $ 3.50 $ 3.31 $ 2.86 diluted 3.45 3.26 2.82 income (loss) per share from discontinued operations: basic $ .03 $ (.33 ) diluted .03 (.32 ) earnings per share: basic $ 3.50 $ 3.34 $ 2.53 diluted 3.45 3.29 2.50 average shares outstanding (in thousands): basic 360,675 331,350 330,361 diluted 365,488 335,732 334,636 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 77 consolidated statement of condition as of december 31, 2007 2006 (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) assets cash and due from banks $ 4,733 $ 2,368 interest-bearing deposits with banks 5,579 5,236 securities purchased under resale agreements 19,133 14,678 federal funds sold 4,540 trading account assets 589 785 investment securities available for sale 70,326 60,445 investment securities held to maturity (fair value of $4,225 and $4,484) 4,233 4,547 loans and leases (less allowance of $18) 15,784 8,928 premises and equipment (net of accumulated depreciation of $2,650 and $2,415) 1,894 1,560 accrued income receivable 2,096 1,617 goodwill 4,567 1,384 other intangible assets 1,990 434 other assets 7,079 5,371 total assets $ 142,543 $ 107,353 liabilities deposits: noninterest-bearing $ 15,039 $ 10,194 interest-bearing u.s. 14,790 1,272 interest-bearing non-u.s. 65,960 54,180 total deposits 95,789 65,646 securities sold under repurchase agreements 14,646 19,147 federal funds purchased 425 2,147 other short-term borrowings 5,557 2,835 accrued taxes and other expenses 4,392 3,143 other liabilities 6,799 4,567 long-term debt 3,636 2,616 total liabilities 131,244 100,101 commitments and contingencies (note 10) shareholders' equity preferred stock, no par: authorized 3,500,000 shares; issued none common stock, $1 par: authorized 750,000,000 shares; issued 398,366,000 and 337,126,000 shares 398 337 surplus 4,630 399 retained earnings 7,745 7,030 accumulated other comprehensive loss (575 ) (224 ) treasury stock, at cost (12,082,000 and 4,688,000 shares) (899 ) (290 ) total shareholders' equity 11,299 7,252 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 142,543 $ 107,353 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 78 consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity common stock treasury stock retained earnings accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (dollars in millions, except per share amounts, shares in thousands) shares amount surplus shares amount total balance at december 31, 2004 337,126 $ 337 $ 289 $ 5,590 $ 92 3,481 $ (149 ) $ 6,159 comprehensive income: net income 838 838 change in net unrealized gains/losses on available-for-sale securities, net of related taxes of $(150) and reclassification adjustment (229 ) (229 ) foreign currency translation, net of related taxes of $(54) (140 ) (140 ) change in unrealized gains/losses on hedges of net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, net of related taxes of $20 37 37 change in unrealized gains/losses on cash flow hedges, net of related taxes of $6 9 9 total comprehensive income 838 (323 ) 515 cash dividends declared $.72 per share (239 ) (239 ) common stock acquired 13,130 (664 ) (664 ) common stock issued under spaces (73 ) (8,712 ) 418 345 common stock awards and options exercised, including tax benefit of $20 50 (4,319 ) 197 247 other (79 ) 4 4 balance at december 31, 2005 337,126 337 266 6,189 (231 ) 3,501 (194 ) 6,367 comprehensive income: net income 1,106 1,106 change in net unrealized gains/losses on available-for-sale securities, net of related taxes of $40 and reclassification adjustment 58 58 foreign currency translation, net of related taxes of $56 124 124 change in unrealized gains/losses on hedges of net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, net of related taxes of $(10) (18 ) (18 ) change in minimum pension liability, net of related taxes of $2 4 4 change in unrealized gains/losses on cash flow hedges, net of related taxes of $2 3 3 total comprehensive income 1,106 171 1,277 adjustment to apply provisions of sfas no. 158, net of related taxes of $(109) (164 ) (164 ) cash dividends declared $.80 per share (265 ) (265 ) common stock acquired 5,782 (368 ) (368 ) common stock received under covers contracts 30 1,199 (26 ) 4 common stock awards and options exercised, including tax benefit of $43 103 (5,782 ) 300 403 other (12 ) (2 ) (2 ) balance at december 31, 2006 337,126 337 399 7,030 (224 ) 4,688 (290 ) 7,252 adjustment for effect of applying provisions of fasb staff position no. fas 13-2 (226 ) (226 ) adjusted balance at january 1, 2007 337,126 337 399 6,804 (224 ) 4,688 (290 ) 7,026 comprehensive income: net income 1,261 1,261 change in net unrealized gains/losses on available-for-sale securities, net of related taxes of $(276) and reclassification adjustment (451 ) (451 ) change in net unrealized gains/losses on fair value hedges of available-for-sale securities, net of related taxes of $(37) (55 ) (55 ) foreign currency translation, net of related taxes of $62 134 134 change in unrealized gains/losses on cash flow hedges, net of related taxes of $(7) (11 ) (11 ) change in unrealized gains/losses on hedges of net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, net of related taxes of $(4) (8 ) (8 ) change in minimum pension liability, net of related taxes of $28 40 40 total comprehensive income 1,261 (351 ) 910 cash dividends declared $.88 per share (320 ) (320 ) common stock acquired 13,369 (1,002 ) (1,002 ) common stock awards and options exercised, including tax benefit of $52 401 65 (5,975 ) 393 458 common stock issued in connection with acquisition 60,839 61 4,166 4,227 balance at december 31, 2007 398,366 $ 398 $ 4,630 $ 7,745 $ (575 ) 12,082 $ (899 ) $ 11,299 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 79 consolidated statement of cash flows years ended december 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 operating activities: net income $ 1,261 $ 1,106 $ 838 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: non-cash adjustments for depreciation, amortization, accretion, provision for loan losses and deferred income tax expense 130 385 499 income (loss) from discontinued operations (16 ) 165 gain on sale of divested business (16 ) securities (gains) losses, net (7 ) (15 ) 1 change in trading account assets, net 195 (179 ) (19 ) other, net 1,360 (300 ) 1,015 net cash provided by operating activities 2,939 981 2,483 investing activities: net (increase) decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks (337 ) 6,039 9,359 net (increase) decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements (2,832 ) (5,999 ) 9,649 proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities 4,731 3,571 3,299 proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale securities 21,750 16,602 22,129 purchases of available-for-sale securities (27,578 ) (23,920 ) (44,758 ) proceeds from maturities of held-to-maturity securities 859 1,590 1,132 purchases of held-to-maturity securities (539 ) (1,246 ) (4,623 ) net increase in loans (6,226 ) (2,464 ) (1,801 ) proceeds from sale of divested business 16 business acquisitions, net of cash acquired (647 ) (43 ) purchases of equity investments and other long-term assets (192 ) (168 ) (55 ) purchases of premises and equipment (476 ) (310 ) (314 ) other 95 114 58 net cash used in investing activities (11,392 ) (6,191 ) (5,952 ) financing activities: net increase (decrease) in time deposits 4,158 (1,261 ) (5,341 ) net increase in all other deposits 14,617 7,258 9,895 net decrease in short-term borrowings (7,794 ) (653 ) (341 ) proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs 1,488 595 payments for long-term debt and obligations under capital leases (533 ) (16 ) (370 ) proceeds from spaces, net of issuance costs 345 purchases of common stock (1,002 ) (368 ) (664 ) proceeds from issuance of common stock for stock awards and options exercised 185 193 231 payments for cash dividends (301 ) (259 ) (232 ) net cash provided by financing activities 10,818 4,894 4,118 net increase (decrease) 2,365 (316 ) 649 cash and due from banks at beginning of year 2,368 2,684 2,035 cash and due from banks at end of year $ 4,733 $ 2,368 $ 2,684 supplemental disclosure: interest paid $ 3,403 $ 3,177 $ 1,965 income taxes paid 593 533 331 non-cash investments in capital leases and other premises and equipment 194 109 9 non-cash acquisitions of investment securities available for sale 1,464 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 80 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies the accounting and financial reporting policies of state street corporation conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, referred to as "gaap." unless otherwise indicated or unless the context requires otherwise, all references in these notes to consolidated financial statements to "state street," "we," "us," "our" or similar references mean state street corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. the parent company is a financial holding company headquartered in boston, massachusetts. we report two lines of business: investment servicing provides services for u.s. mutual funds and collective investment funds, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and other investment pools worldwide. products include custody, product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; recordkeeping; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics to support institutional investors. investment management offers a broad array of services for managing financial assets, including investment management and investment research services, primarily for institutional investors worldwide. these services include passive and active u.s. and non-u.s. equity and fixed-income strategies, and other related services, such as securities finance. the preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions in the application of certain of our accounting policies that materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. as a result of unanticipated events or circumstances, actual results could differ from those estimates. the following is a summary of our significant accounting policies. basis of presentation: our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its majority-owned subsidiaries, including its principal banking subsidiary, state street bank and trust company, referred to as "state street bank." all material inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated. certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. we consolidate subsidiaries in which we hold a majority of the voting rights or exercise control. investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries, recorded in other assets, are generally accounted for using the equity method of accounting if we have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operations of the investee. for investments accounted for under the equity method, our share of income or loss is recorded in processing fees and other revenue. investments not meeting the criteria for equity method treatment are accounted for using the cost method of accounting. foreign currency translation: the assets and liabilities of our operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar are translated at month-end exchange rates, and revenue and expenses are translated at rates that approximate average monthly exchange rates. gains or losses from the translation of the net assets of subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, net of related taxes, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. 81 cash and cash equivalents: for purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash equivalents have been defined as cash and due from banks. securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements: u.s. treasury and federal agency securities, referred to as "u.s. government securities," purchased under resale agreements or sold under repurchase agreements are treated as collateralized financing transactions, and are recorded in our consolidated statement of condition at the amounts at which the securities will be subsequently resold or repurchased, plus accrued interest. our policy is to take possession or control of securities underlying resale agreements, allowing borrowers the right of collateral substitution and/or short-notice termination. we revalue these securities daily to determine if additional collateral is necessary from the borrower to protect us against credit exposure. we can use these securities as collateral for repurchase agreements. for securities sold under repurchase agreements collateralized by our u.s. government securities portfolio, the dollar value of the u.s. government securities remains in investment securities in our consolidated statement of condition. where a master netting agreement exists or both parties are members of a common clearing organization, resale and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty or clearing house and maturity date are reported on a net basis. investment securities available for sale and held to maturity: securities held in our investment securities portfolio are classified at the time of purchase, based on management's intentions, as available for sale or held to maturity. securities available for sale are those that management intends to hold for an indefinite period of time, including securities used as part of our asset and liability management strategy that may be sold in response to changes in interest rates, pre-payment risk, liquidity needs or other similar factors. debt and marketable equity securities classified as available for sale are reported at fair value, and after-tax net unrealized gains and losses are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of shareholders' equity. gains or losses on sales of available-for-sale securities are computed using the specific identification method. securities held to maturity are debt securities that management has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. securities classified as held to maturity are reported at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. management reviews the fair value of the portfolio at least quarterly, and evaluates individual securities for declines in fair value that may be other than temporary, considering factors such as current and expected future interest rates, external credit ratings, dividend payments, the performance of underlying collateral, if any, the financial health of the issuer and other pertinent information, including current developments with respect to the issuer, as well as the duration of the decline and management's intent and ability to hold the security. if declines are deemed other than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized and the amortized cost basis of the investment security is written down to its current fair value, which becomes the new cost basis. other-than-temporary unrealized losses on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, if any, are recorded as a reduction of processing fees and other revenue. loans and lease financing: loans are generally reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of the allowance for loan losses, unearned income, and any net unamortized deferred loan origination fees. interest revenue is recognized using the interest method or on a basis approximating a level rate of return over the term of the loan. fees received for providing loan commitments and letters of credit that we anticipate will result in loans typically are deferred and amortized to interest revenue over the life of the related loan, 82 beginning with the initial borrowing. fees on commitments and letters of credit are amortized to processing fees and other revenue over the commitment period when funding is not known or expected. loans are placed on non-accrual status when they become 60 days past due as to either principal or interest, or earlier when, in the opinion of management, full collection of principal or interest is not probable. loans 60 days past due, but considered both well secured and in the process of collection, are treated as exceptions and may be exempted from non-accrual status. when we place a loan on non-accrual status, the accrual of interest is discontinued and previously recorded but unpaid interest is reversed and generally charged against net interest revenue. for loans on non-accrual status, revenue is recognized on a cash basis after recovery of principal, if and when interest payments are received. leveraged lease investments are reported at the aggregate of lease payments receivable and estimated residual values, net of non-recourse debt and unearned income. lease residual values are reviewed regularly for other-than-temporary impairment, with valuation adjustments recorded currently against processing fees and other revenue. unearned income is recognized to yield a level rate of return on the net investment in the leases. gains and losses on residual values of leased equipment sold are recorded in processing fees and other revenue. allowance for loan losses: the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis by management. factors considered in evaluating the adequacy of the allowance include previous loss experience, current economic conditions and adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral and the performance of individual credits in relation to contract terms, and other relevant factors. the provision for loan losses charged to earnings is based upon management's estimate of the amount necessary to maintain the allowance at a level adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. loans are charged off to the allowance for loan losses in the reporting period in which either an event occurs that confirms the existence of a loss or it is determined that a loan or a portion of a loan is not collectible. recoveries are recorded on a cash basis. in addition, we maintain a reserve for off-balance sheet credit exposures that is recorded in other liabilities. the adequacy of this reserve is subject to the same considerations and review as the allowance for loan losses. provisions to change the level of this reserve are recorded in other operating expenses. premises and equipment: buildings, leasehold improvements, computers, software and other equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. depreciation and amortization recorded in operating expenses are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets or the remaining terms of the leases, generally 3 to 40 years. maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major leasehold improvements are capitalized and expensed over their estimated useful lives or terms of the lease. for premises held under leases where we have an obligation to restore the facilities to their original condition upon expiration of the lease, we expense the anticipated related costs over the term of the lease. costs related to internal-use software development projects that provide significant new functionality are capitalized. we consider projects for capitalization that are expected to yield long-term operational benefits, such as applications that result in operational efficiencies and/or incremental revenue streams. software customization costs relating to specific customer enhancements are expensed as incurred. 83 goodwill and other intangible assets: goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net tangible and other intangible assets acquired. other intangible assets represent purchased assets that can be distinguished from goodwill because of contractual rights or because the asset can be exchanged on its own or in combination with a related contract, asset or liability. goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to annual impairment tests. customer relationship intangible assets generally are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from twelve to twenty years, and core deposit intangible assets over twenty-two years, with amortization expense recorded in other operating expenses. impairment of goodwill is deemed to exist if the carrying value of a reporting unit, including its allocation of goodwill and other intangible assets, exceeds its estimated fair value. impairment of other intangibles is deemed to exist if the balance of the other intangible asset exceeds the cumulative net cash inflows related to the asset over its remaining estimated useful life. if it is determined, based on these reviews, that goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired, the value of the goodwill or the other intangible asset is written down through a charge to other operating expenses. fee and net interest revenue: fees from investment servicing, investment management, securities finance, trading services and certain types of processing fees and other revenue are recorded based on estimates or specific contractual terms as transactions occur or services are rendered, provided that persuasive evidence exists, the price to the customer is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. amounts accrued at period-end are recorded in accrued income receivable in our consolidated statement of condition. investment management performance fees are recorded when earned, based on predetermined benchmarks associated with the applicable fund's performance. interest revenue on interest-earning assets and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities is recorded based on the effective yield of the related financial instrument. employee benefits expense: employee benefits expense includes prior and current service costs of pension and other postretirement benefit plans, which are accrued on a current basis, as well as contributions under defined contribution savings plans, unrestricted awards under other employee compensation plans, and the amortization of restricted stock awards. equity-based compensation: we record compensation expense, equal to the estimated fair value of employee stock options on the grant date, on a straight-line basis over the options' vesting period. we use a black-scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of the options granted. on january 1, 2006, we adopted statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment . this standard requires the fair value of all share-based payments to employees, including awards made prior to january 1, 2003, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of income. we elected to use the modified prospective method, under which compensation expense is recorded over the remaining vesting period for only the portion of stock awards not fully vested as of january 1, 2006. the impact of adoption of the standard was not material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations, because the number of options granted prior to january 1, 2003, that were not fully vested as of january 1, 2006, was not significant. in addition, we elected to adopt the alternative transition method prescribed by financial accounting standards board staff position no. fas 123(r)-3, and reclassified $86 million of tax benefits related to equity-based compensation from a general surplus account to a specifically designated surplus account within shareholders' equity. 84 the following table illustrates the pro forma effect on net income and earnings per share as if all outstanding and unvested stock options in 2005 were accounted for using estimated fair value. year ended december 31, 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts) net income as reported $ 838 add: stock option compensation expense included in reported net income, net of related taxes 20 deduct: total stock option compensation expense determined under fair value method for all awards, net of related taxes (27 ) pro forma net income $ 831 earnings per share: basic as reported $ 2.53 basic pro forma 2.51 diluted as reported 2.50 diluted pro forma 2.48 income taxes: we use an asset and liability approach to account for income taxes. our objective is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year through charges or credits to the current tax provision, and to recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences resulting from temporary differences between the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and their respective tax bases. the measurement of tax assets and liabilities is based on enacted tax laws and applicable tax rates. the financial statement effects of a tax position are recognized when we believe it more likely than not that the position will be sustained. a deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. earnings per share: basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period, which excludes unvested shares of restricted stock. diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period and the shares representing the dilutive effect of stock options and awards and other equity-related financial instruments. the effect of stock options and restricted stock outstanding is excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share in periods in which their effect would be antidilutive. special purpose entities: we are involved with various legal forms of special purpose entities, or spes, in the normal course of our business. we use trusts to structure and sell certificated interests in pools of tax-exempt investment-grade assets principally to our mutual fund customers. these trusts are recorded in our consolidated financial statements. we transfer assets to these trusts, which are legally isolated from us, from our investment securities portfolio at adjusted book value. the trusts finance the acquisition of these assets by selling certificated interests issued by the trusts to third-party investors. the investment securities of the trusts are carried in investments securities available for sale at fair value. the certificated interests are carried in other short-term borrowings at the amount owed to the third-party investors. the interest revenue and interest expense generated by the investments and certificated interests, respectively, are recorded in net interest revenue when earned or incurred. 85 we use conduits in connection with an asset-backed commercial paper program that provides short-term investments for our customers. the conduits, which are administered by us, are third-party owned and are structured as bankruptcy-remote limited liability companies. the conduits purchase financial assets with various asset classifications from a variety of third-parties and fund those purchases by issuing commercial paper. we do not sell our own assets to these conduits. these conduits typically meet the definition of a variable interest entity, or vie, as defined by fasb interpretation no. 46(r), consolidation of variable interest entities (revised december 2003) an interpretation of arb no. 51 . we have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of the conduits, as defined by fin 46(r), and do not record them in our consolidated financial statements. we periodically re-assess this determination, using a financial model, referred to as an "expected loss model," to ensure that consolidation is not required pursuant to fin 46(r). the primary beneficiary is the party that has one or more variable interests that will absorb a majority of a vie's expected losses, receive a majority of the vie's expected residual returns, or both. if we were to determine that we were the primary beneficiary of the conduits, we would consolidate them. we apply the expected loss model to the conduits to determine the primary beneficiaries of conduits meeting the definition of variable interest entities. variabilities factored into the model include basis risk and credit risk, which are then allocated to the variable interest holders to determine which of those variable interest holders is the primary beneficiary. we hold no equity ownership interest in these conduits. investors in commercial paper issued by the conduits benefit from the liquidity support provided to the conduits, the majority of which is provided by us in the form of liquidity asset purchase agreements and backup liquidity lines of credit. we also provide direct credit support to the conduits in the form of standby letters of credit. liquidity asset purchase agreements, backup liquidity lines of credit and standby letters of credit are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements but are reported as off-balance sheet commitments. we receive fees for providing administrative services to the conduits, as well as liquidity and direct credit support, all of which are based on market price and are recorded in processing fees and other revenue when earned. we manage the collateral in certain third-party investment vehicles, referred to as cdos, which structure and sell debt and equity securities to investors. these cdos purchase a portfolio of diversified assets and fund these asset purchases through the issuance of several tranches of debt and equity, the repayment and return of which are linked to the performance of the assets in the cdo. typically, our involvement is only as collateral manager. we may also invest in a small percentage of the debt issued. these cdos typically meet the definition of a variable interest entity as defined by fin 46(r). we have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of these cdos, and do not record them in our consolidated financial statements. we receive fees for asset management services provided to the cdos, which are based on market price and are recorded in processing fees and other revenue when earned. derivative financial instruments: a derivative financial instrument is a financial instrument or other contract which has one or more underlying and one or more notional amounts, no initial net investment, or a smaller initial net investment than would be expected for similar types of contracts, and which requires or permits net settlement. derivatives that we enter into include forwards, futures, swaps, options and other instruments with similar characteristics. we record derivatives in our consolidated statement of condition at their fair value. on the date a derivative contract is entered into, we designate the derivative as: (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized fixed-rate asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (a "fair value" hedge); (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related 86 to a recognized variable-rate asset or liability (a "cash flow" hedge); (3) a foreign currency fair value or cash flow hedge (a "foreign currency" hedge); (4) a hedge of a net investment in a non-u.s. operation; or (5) held for trading purposes ("trading" instruments). changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge are recorded currently in processing fees and other revenue, along with the changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk. changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge are recorded, net of tax, in other comprehensive income, until earnings are affected by the hedged cash flows ( e.g., when periodic settlements on a variable-rate asset or liability are recorded in earnings). cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, defined as the extent to which the changes in fair value of the derivative exceed the variability of cash flows of the forecasted transaction, is recorded in processing fees and other revenue. changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that is designated and qualifies as a foreign currency hedge are recorded currently either in processing fees and other revenue or in other comprehensive income, net of tax, depending on whether the hedge transaction meets the criteria for a fair value or a cash flow hedge. if, however, a derivative is used as a hedge of a net investment in a non-u.s. operation, its changes in fair value, to the extent effective as a hedge, are recorded, net of tax, in the foreign currency translation component of other comprehensive income. lastly, entire changes in the fair value of derivatives classified as trading instruments are recorded in trading services revenue. at both the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, we formally assess and document the effectiveness of a derivative designated as a hedge in offsetting changes in the fair value of hedged items and the likelihood that the derivative will be an effective hedge in future periods. we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when we determine that the derivative will not remain effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the underlying risk being hedged, the derivative expires, terminates or is sold, or management discontinues the hedge designation. unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange and interest-rate contracts are reported at fair value in the consolidated statement of condition as a component of other assets and other liabilities, respectively, on a gross basis, except where such gains and losses arise from contracts covered by qualifying master netting agreements. recent accounting developments: in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements, an amendment of arb no. 51. sfas no. 160 will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as "noncontrolling interests" and classified as a component of equity. this new consolidation method will significantly change the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders. the provisions of this standard are effective beginning january 1, 2009. we are currently evaluating the potential impact of adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141 (revised 2007), business combinations . sfas no. 141(r) will significantly change the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, contingencies, acquisition costs, in-process research and development costs and restructuring costs. in addition, under sfas no. 141(r), changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties in a business combination after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. the provisions of this standard are effective beginning january 1, 2009. we are currently evaluating the potential impact of adoption of this new standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 87 in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities including an amendment of fasb statement no. 115. this new standard is designed to reduce complexity in accounting for financial instruments and lessen earnings volatility caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently. the standard creates presentation and disclosure requirements designed to aid comparisons between companies that use different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. the standard, which is expected to expand the use of fair value measurement, permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses on those assets and liabilities recorded in earnings. the fair value option may be applied on a financial instrument by financial instrument basis, with a few exceptions, and is irrevocable for those financial instruments once applied. the fair value option may only be applied to entire financial instruments, not portions of instruments. the standard does not eliminate disclosures required by sfas no. 107, disclosures about fair value of financial instruments , or sfas no. 157, fair value measurements, the latter of which is described below. the provisions of the standard were effective for our consolidated financial statements beginning january 1, 2008. we have not elected the fair value option under sfas no. 159, but may elect to do so in future periods. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, fair value measurements . this new standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in conformity with gaap, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. prior to this standard, there were varying definitions of fair value, and the limited guidance for applying those definitions under gaap was dispersed among the many accounting pronouncements that require fair value measurements. the new standard defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. the standard applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, since the fasb previously concluded in those accounting pronouncements that fair value is the relevant measurement attribute. as a result, the new standard does not establish any new fair value measurements itself, but applies to other accounting standards that require the use of fair value for recognition or disclosure. in particular, the framework in the new standard will be required for financial instruments for which fair value is elected, such as under the newly issued sfas no. 159, discussed above. the new standard requires companies to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments according to a fair value hierarchy. the fair value hierarchy ranks the quality and reliability of the information used to determine fair values. financial instruments carried at fair value will be classified and disclosed in one of the three categories in accordance with the hierarchy. the three levels of the fair value hierarchy are: level 1: quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets; level 2: observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs corroborated by market data; and level 3: unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data. in addition, the standard requires enhanced disclosure with respect to the activities of those financial instruments classified within the level 3 category, including a roll-forward analysis of fair value balance sheet amounts for each major category of assets and liabilities and disclosure of the unrealized gains and losses for level 3 positions held at the reporting date. 88 the standard is intended to increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements and disclosures about fair value measurements, and encourages entities to combine the fair value information disclosed under the standard with the fair value information disclosed under other accounting pronouncements, including sfas no. 107, disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, where practicable. the provisions of this standard were effective beginning january 1, 2008. our adoption of the standard's provisions did not materially impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we will provide the disclosures required by the new standard in our first quarter 2008 form 10-q. in july 2006, the fasb issued fasb staff position no. fas 13-2, accounting for a change or projected change in the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes generated by a leveraged lease transaction. the staff position, the provisions of which were applied on january 1, 2007, requires that the recognition of lease income over the term of a lease be recalculated if a change in the expected timing of tax-related cash flows occurs. our application of the staff position's provisions to certain of our leveraged leases resulted in a cumulative after-tax reduction of the beginning balance of retained earnings on january 1, 2007 of approximately $226 million. future income from the affected leases is expected to increase over the remaining terms of the affected leases by an amount approximately equal to the after-tax reduction. in july 2006, to improve comparability in the reporting of income tax assets and liabilities in the absence of guidance in existing income tax accounting standards, the fasb issued interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 . generally, this interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company's financial statements in accordance with existing income tax accounting standards, and prescribes certain thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. the provisions of the interpretation were applied on january 1, 2007, and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. disclosures required by the interpretation are provided in note 20. note 2. acquisitions and divestitures on july 2, 2007, we completed our acquisition of investors financial services corp., a bank holding company based in boston, massachusetts with approximately $17 billion in total assets and approximately $1.9 trillion in assets under custody. we acquired investors financial in order to enhance our position as a worldwide service provider to institutional investors. we exchanged approximately 60.8 million shares of our common stock, with an aggregate value of approximately $4.2 billion, for all of the outstanding common stock of investors financial. financial results of the acquired investors financial business are included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on july 2, 2007. 89 as presented in the following table, the purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the acquisition date. customer relationship and core deposit intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years and 22 years, respectively. additional information about goodwill and other intangible assets is in note 5. (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) purchase price investors financial common stock exchanged (in thousands) 67,152 exchange ratio .906 total shares of state street common stock exchanged (in thousands) 60,839 purchase price per share of state street common stock(1) $ 69.488 total value of state street common stock exchanged $ 4,227 cash settlement of outstanding investors financial common stock options 143 state street direct acquisition-related costs 30 vesting of restricted common stock exchanged at closing 4 total purchase price $ 4,404 allocation of purchase price investors financial shareholders' equity $ 999 write-off of investors financial goodwill and other intangible assets (80 ) estimated adjustments to reflect assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value: write-down of securities held to maturity (32 ) current tax receivable 14 write-off of capitalized software, long-lived assets and other assets and liabilities, net (107 ) customer relationship intangible asset 920 core deposit intangible asset 500 operating lease intangible asset 13 exit and termination liabilities (67 ) lease-related liabilities 29 deferred tax liability, net (495 ) estimated fair value of net assets acquired 1,694 goodwill resulting from acquisition $ 2,710 (1) the value per share of state street common stock exchanged with investors financial shareholders was based on a five-day average closing share price for two days before and two days after the announcement date of february 5, 2007. 90 the following table presents pro forma combined consolidated results of operations of state street and investors financial as though the acquisition had been completed on january 1, 2006. years ended december 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2007 2006 total fee revenue $ 6,966 $ 5,822 net interest revenue 1,832 1,274 gains on sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net 7 18 total revenue 8,805 7,114 total operating expenses 6,831 5,187 income from continuing operations before income tax expense 1,974 1,927 income tax expense from continuing operations 666 721 income from continuing operations $ 1,308 $ 1,206 earnings per share from continuing operations: basic $ 3.35 $ 3.08 diluted 3.30 3.04 average shares outstanding (in thousands): basic 390,565 390,901 diluted 396,734 396,881 during the second half of 2007, in connection with the acquisition, we recorded merger and integration costs of approximately $198 million in our consolidated statement of income. these costs consisted only of direct and incremental costs to integrate the acquired investors financial business into our operations. these costs do not include on-going expenses of the combined organization. (in millions) lease termination $ 91 retention and other compensation 42 system and customer integration 22 other 23 178 premium associated with redemption of state street junior subordinated debentures 20 total merger and integration costs $ 198 in connection with the acquisition, we recorded liabilities for exit and termination costs related to the acquired investors financial business of approximately $67 million. these costs were recorded as part of the purchase price, and resulted in additional goodwill. payment of liabilities associated with contract terminations and severance is expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2008. the liability related to lease abandonments will be amortized over the term of the related leases, which is approximately twelve years. the following table presents activity related to these liabilities for 2007. (in millions) contract terminations severance lease abandonments total balance on july 2, 2007 $ 10 $ 26 $ 31 $ 67 payments 6 6 balance at end of year $ 10 $ 20 $ 31 $ 61 91 in march 2007, we completed our acquisition of currenex, inc., an independently owned electronic foreign exchange trading platform. we paid approximately $564 million, net of liabilities assumed, and recorded the following significant assets: goodwill $437 million; customer relationship and other intangible assets $174 million; and other tangible assets $25 million. the customer relationship and other intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from eight to twelve years. financial results of currenex are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements beginning on march 2, 2007. during the first quarter of 2006, we agreed to a plan of sale to finalize the divestiture of our ownership interest in bel air investment advisors llc, and recorded income of approximately $16 million, or $10 million after-tax, related to the finalization of legal, selling and other costs recorded in connection with the divestiture. we completed the divestiture in july 2006. note 3. investment securities 2007 2006 gross unrealized gross unrealized amortized cost fair value amortized cost fair value (in millions) gains losses gains losses available for sale: u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 8,163 $ 32 $ 14 $ 8,181 $ 7,701 $ 89 $ 7,612 mortgage-backed securities 14,631 54 100 14,585 11,685 $ 15 246 11,454 asset-backed securities 26,100 2 1,033 25,069 25,646 28 40 25,634 collateralized mortgage obligations 12,018 41 167 11,892 8,538 17 79 8,476 state and political subdivisions 5,756 79 22 5,813 3,740 20 11 3,749 other debt investments 4,041 27 27 4,041 3,043 7 23 3,027 money-market mutual funds 243 243 201 201 other equity securities 479 24 1 502 269 24 1 292 total $ 71,431 $ 259 $ 1,364 $ 70,326 $ 60,823 $ 111 $ 489 $ 60,445 held to maturity: u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 757 $ 9 $ 1 $ 765 $ 846 $ 15 $ 831 mortgage-backed securities 940 7 6 941 1,084 $ 5 17 1,072 collateralized mortgage obligations 2,190 5 24 2,171 2,357 5 41 2,321 other investments 346 2 348 260 1 1 260 total $ 4,233 $ 23 $ 31 $ 4,225 $ 4,547 $ 11 $ 74 $ 4,484 aggregate investment securities carried at $39.84 billion and $23.28 billion at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were designated as pledged for public and trust deposits, short-term borrowings and for other purposes as provided by law. 92 gross unrealized losses on investment securities on a pre-tax basis consisted of the following as of december 31, 2007: less than 12 continuous months 12 continuous months or longer total (in millions) fair value gross unrealized losses fair value gross unrealized losses fair value gross unrealized losses u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 2,414 $ 11 $ 1,350 $ 4 $ 3,764 $ 15 mortgage-backed securities 2,501 19 6,682 87 9,183 106 asset-backed securities 2,277 46 20,965 987 23,242 1,033 collateralized mortgage obligations 2,603 53 7,388 138 9,991 191 state and political subdivisions 1,010 20 134 2 1,144 22 other debt investments 758 9 928 18 1,686 27 other equity securities 18 1 18 1 total $ 11,581 $ 159 $ 37,447 $ 1,236 $ 49,028 $ 1,395 as described in note 1, management periodically reviews the investment securities portfolio to determine if other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. this review encompasses all investment securities and includes such quantitative factors as current and expected future interest rates, the length of time the cost basis has exceeded the fair value and the severity of the impairment measured as the ratio of fair value to amortized cost, and includes all investment securities for which we have issuer-specific concerns regardless of quantitative factors. after a full review of all investment securities, taking into consideration current economic conditions, adverse situations that might affect our ability to fully collect interest and principal, the timing of future payments, the credit quality and performance of the underlying collateral of asset-backed securities, and other relevant factors, management considers the aggregate decline in fair value and the resulting gross unrealized losses of $1.40 billion on 2,702 securities at december 31, 2007 to be temporary. the losses are not considered to be the result of any material changes in the credit characteristics of the investment securities. management has the ability and the intent to hold the securities until recovery in market value. gross gains and losses realized from sales of available-for-sale securities were as follows for the years indicated: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 gross gains $ 24 $ 33 $ 9 gross losses 17 18 10 net gains (losses) $ 7 $ 15 $ (1 ) 93 contractual maturities of debt investment securities were as follows as of december 31, 2007: (in millions) under 1 year 1 to 5 years 6 to 10 years over 10 years available for sale: u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 5,683 $ 1,072 $ 520 $ 906 mortgage-backed securities 116 1,384 4,152 8,933 asset-backed securities 1,304 11,321 8,223 4,221 collateralized mortgage obligations 170 3,156 3,617 4,949 state and political subdivisions 370 1,997 1,644 1,802 other investments 1,686 1,405 906 44 total $ 9,329 $ 20,335 $ 19,062 $ 20,855 held to maturity: u.s. treasury and federal agencies: direct obligations $ 256 $ 501 mortgage-backed securities 30 $ 329 $ 581 collateralized mortgage obligations 725 970 495 other investments 163 119 61 3 total $ 419 $ 1,375 $ 1,360 $ 1,079 the maturities of asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are based upon expected principal payments. note 4. loans and lease financing (in millions) 2007 2006 commercial and financial: u.s. $ 9,402 $ 3,480 non-u.s. 4,420 3,137 lease financing: u.s. 396 415 non-u.s. 1,584 1,914 total loans 15,802 8,946 less allowance for loan losses (18 ) (18 ) net loans $ 15,784 $ 8,928 aggregate securities settlement advances and overdrafts included in commercial and financial loans in the table above were $11.65 billion and $5.69 billion at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 94 the components of the net investment in leveraged leases were as follows as of december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 net rental income receivable $ 3,264 $ 3,272 estimated residual values 222 196 unearned income (1,506 ) (1,139 ) investment in leveraged leases 1,980 2,329 less related deferred income taxes (1,177 ) (1,779 ) net investment in leveraged leases $ 803 $ 550 changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows for the years ended december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 balance at beginning of year $ 18 $ 18 $ 18 provision for loan losses reclassification balance at end of year $ 18 $ 18 $ 18 note 5. goodwill and other intangible assets changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows for the years ended december 31: (in millions) investment servicing investment management total balance at december 31, 2005 $ 1,330 $ 7 $ 1,337 foreign currency translation adjustments 46 1 47 balance at december 31, 2006 1,376 8 1,384 acquisition of currenex 437 437 acquisition of investors financial 2,710 2,710 other acquisitions 26 26 foreign currency translation adjustments 10 10 balance at december 31, 2007 $ 4,559 $ 8 $ 4,567 the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of other intangible assets were as follows as of december 31: 2007 2006 (in millions) gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount customer relationships $ 1,695 $ (253 ) $ 1,442 $ 564 $ (170 ) $ 394 core deposits 500 (11 ) 489 other 75 (16 ) 59 50 (10 ) 40 total $ 2,270 $ (280 ) $ 1,990 $ 614 $ (180 ) $ 434 amortization expense related to other intangible assets was $92 million, $43 million and $43 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. expected amortization expense for intangibles held at december 31, 2007 is $132 million for 2008 and 2009, $130 million for 2010, and $128 million for 2011 and 2012. 95 note 6. other assets other assets consisted of the following as of december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments $ 4,513 $ 3,060 equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries 398 336 prepaid pension expense 93 53 other 2,075 1,922 total $ 7,079 $ 5,371 note 7. deposits at december 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $20.90 billion and $16.74 billion, respectively, of time deposits outstanding. non-u.s. time deposits were $3.71 billion and $6.80 billion at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. substantially all u.s. and non-u.s. time deposits were in amounts of $100,000 or more. the scheduled maturities of time deposits were as follows at december 31, 2007: (in millions) 2008 $ 20,712 2009 172 2010 7 2011 5 2012 after 2012 total $ 20,896 at december 31, 2007, the scheduled maturities of u.s. time deposits were as follows: (in millions) 3 months or less $ 17,010 4 months to a year 3 over one year 177 total $ 17,190 note 8. short-term borrowings our short-term borrowings include securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowings, including commercial paper. collectively, short-term borrowings had weighted-average interest rates of 4.36% and 4.46% for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 96 the following table reflects the amounts outstanding and weighted-average interest rates of the primary components of short-term borrowings as of and for the years ended december 31: federal funds purchased securities sold under repurchase agreements (dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 balance at december 31 $ 425 $ 2,147 $ 1,204 $ 14,646 $ 19,147 $ 20,895 maximum outstanding at any month end 5,007 8,040 3,982 20,108 23,024 24,690 average outstanding during the year 1,667 2,777 2,306 16,132 20,883 22,432 weighted average interest rate at end of year 3.06 % 5.18 % 4.08 % 3.40 % 4.43 % 3.79 % weighted average interest rate during the year 5.15 5.04 3.23 4.35 4.38 2.73 securities sold under repurchase agreements included the following at december 31, 2007: (in millions) collateralized with securities purchased under resale agreements $ 9,354 collateralized with investment securities 5,292 total $ 14,646 the obligations to repurchase securities sold are recorded as a liability in our consolidated statement of condition. u.s. government securities with a fair value of $5.48 billion underlying the repurchase agreements remained in investment securities. information about these u.s. government securities and the related repurchase agreements, including accrued interest, as of december 31, 2007, is presented in the following table. the table excludes repurchase agreements collateralized with securities purchased under resale agreements. u.s. government securities sold repurchase agreements (dollars in millions) amortized cost fair value amortized cost rate overnight maturity $ 5,395 $ 5,479 $ 5,292 3.40 % during 2005, we entered into an agreement with a clearing organization that enables us to net all securities purchased under resale agreements and sold under repurchase agreements with counterparties that are also members of this organization. as a result of netting, the average balances of securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements were each reduced by $13.38 billion for 2007 and $6.41 billion for 2006. other short-term borrowings at december 31, 2007 and 2006, included $3.08 billion and $1.79 billion, respectively, of certificated interests related to our tax-exempt investment program, which is discussed in note 11. we maintain a commercial paper program under which we can issue up to $3 billion with original maturities of up to 270 days from the date of issue. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, $2.36 billion and $998 million, respectively, of commercial paper were outstanding. in addition, state street bank has authority to issue bank notes up to an aggregate of $750 million with original maturities ranging from 14 days to five years. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, no notes payable were outstanding, and at december 31, 2007, all $750 million was available for issuance. state street bank maintains a line of credit of cad $800 million, or approximately $805 million, to support its canadian securities processing operations. the line of credit has no stated termination 97 date and is cancelable by either party with prior notice. at december 31, 2007, no balance was due on this line of credit. note 9. long-term debt (dollars in millions) 2007 2006 statutory business trusts: floating-rate subordinated notes due to state street capital trust iv in 2067 $ 800 8.035% subordinated notes due to state street capital trust b in 2027 $ 309 7.94% subordinated notes due to state street capital trust a in 2026 206 floating-rate subordinated notes due to state street capital trust i in 2028(2) 155 155 9.77% subordinated notes due to investors capital trust i in 2027 25 parent company and non-bank subsidiary issuances: long-term capital lease 486 501 5.375% notes due 2017 450 7.65% subordinated notes due 2010(1) 304 294 floating-rate notes due 2012 250 7.35% notes due 2026 150 150 9.50% mortgage note due 2009 3 6 state street bank issuances: 5.25% subordinated notes due 2018(1) 413 396 5.30% subordinated notes due 2016 400 399 floating-rate subordinated notes due 2015(2) 200 200 total long-term debt $ 3,636 $ 2,616 (1) we have entered into various interest-rate swap contracts to modify our interest expense on certain subordinated notes from a fixed rate to a floating rate. these swaps are recorded as fair value hedges, and at december 31, 2007 and 2006, we recorded an increase of $19 million and a decrease of $9 million, respectively, in the carrying value of long-term debt. (2) we have entered into interest-rate swaps, which are recorded as cash flow hedges, to modify our floating-rate interest expense on the subordinated notes due 2028 and 2015 to a fixed rate. see note 15 for additional information about derivatives. we maintain an effective universal shelf registration that allows for the offering and sale of debt securities, capital securities, common stock, depositary shares and preferred stock, and warrants to purchase such securities, including any shares into which the preferred stock and depositary shares may be convertible, or any combination thereof. statutory business trusts: as of december 31, 2007, we had three statutory business trusts, state street capital trusts i and iv, and investors capital trust i, which as of december 31, 2007, collectively had issued $975 million of cumulative quarterly income trust preferred capital securities. proceeds received by the trusts from their capitalization and from their capital securities issuances are invested in junior subordinated debentures issued by the parent company. the junior subordinated debentures are the sole assets of the trusts. the trusts are wholly-owned by us; however, we do not consolidate the trusts under existing accounting standards. 98 payments made by the trusts on the capital securities are dependent on our payments made to the trusts on the junior subordinated debentures. our fulfillment of these commitments has the effect of providing a full, irrevocable and unconditional guarantee of the trusts' obligations under the capital securities. while the capital securities issued by the trusts are not recorded in our consolidated statement of condition, the junior subordinated debentures qualify for inclusion in tier 1 regulatory capital under federal regulatory capital guidelines. information about restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiary banks is in note 14. interest paid on the debentures is recorded in interest expense. distributions on the capital securities are payable from interest payments received on the debentures and are due quarterly by state street capital trusts i and iv, subject to deferral for up to five years under certain conditions. the capital securities are subject to mandatory redemption in whole at the stated maturity upon repayment of the debentures, with an option by us to redeem the debentures at any time upon the occurrence of certain tax events or changes to tax treatment, investment company regulation or capital treatment; or at any time after may 15, 2008 for the capital trust i securities and any time after june 15, 2012 for the capital trust iv securities. redemptions are subject to federal regulatory approval. in april 2007, state street capital trust iv, a delaware statutory trust wholly owned by the parent company, issued $800 million in aggregate liquidation amount of floating-rate capital securities and used the proceeds to purchase a like amount of floating-rate junior subordinated debentures from the parent company. the capital securities represent an undivided preferred beneficial interest in those junior subordinated debentures, which are the only assets of the trust. the junior subordinated debentures have an initial scheduled maturity in june 2037 and an initial final repayment date in june 2067, each of which we may extend by ten years in specified circumstances. in accordance with existing accounting standards, we did not record the trust in our consolidated financial statements. the junior subordinated debentures qualify for inclusion in tier 1 regulatory capital. in connection with the issuance of the junior subordinated debentures, the parent company entered into a replacement capital covenant in which it agreed, for the benefit of the holders of its junior subordinated debentures due 2028 underlying the floating-rate capital securities issued by state street capital trust i, that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the newly issued debentures or the floating-rate capital securities on or before june 1, 2047, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the covenant. in july 2007, we redeemed an aggregate of $500 million of unsecured junior subordinated debentures issued by the parent company to two of our statutory business trusts, state street capital trusts a and b, composed of $200 million of 7.94% debentures issued in 1996 and $300 million of 8.035% debentures issued in 1997. we paid the trusts the outstanding amount on the debentures plus accrued interest and an aggregate redemption premium of approximately $20 million. this redemption premium was included in the merger and integration costs which were recorded during the second half of 2007 in connection with the investors financial acquisition. in july 2007, the trusts, consistent with the terms of their applicable governing documents, redeemed their respective outstanding capital securities, with an aggregate liquidation amount of $500 million, corresponding to the debentures. the trusts paid to the holders of the outstanding capital securities the same amount that was paid by the parent company to the trusts to redeem the debentures. in january 2008, state street capital trust iii, a delaware statutory trust wholly owned by the parent company, issued $500 million in aggregate liquidation amount of 8.250% fixed-to-floating rate normal automatic preferred enhanced capital securities, referred to as "normal apex," and used the 99 proceeds to purchase a like amount of remarketable 6.001% junior subordinated debentures due 2042 from the parent company. in addition, the trust entered into stock purchase contracts with the parent company under which the trust agrees to purchase, and the parent company agrees to sell, on the stock purchase date, a like amount in aggregate liquidation amount of the parent company's non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, series a, $100,000 liquidation preference per share. state street will make contract payments to the trust at an annual rate of 2.249% of the stated amount of $100,000 per stock purchase contract. the normal apex are beneficial interests in the trust. the trust will pass through, as distributions on or the redemption price of normal apex, amounts that it receives on its assets that are the corresponding assets for the normal apex. the corresponding assets for each normal apex, $1,000 liquidation amount, initially are $1,000 principal amount of the 6.001% junior subordinated debentures and a 1/100 th , or a $1,000, interest in a stock purchase contract for the purchase and sale of one share of the series a preferred stock for $100,000. the stock purchase date is expected to be march 15, 2011, but it may occur on an earlier date or as late as march 15, 2012. from and after the stock purchase date, the corresponding asset for each normal apex will be a 1/100 th , or a $1,000, interest in one share of the series a preferred stock. in accordance with existing accounting standards, we did not record the trust in our consolidated financial statements. the junior subordinated debentures qualify for inclusion in tier 1 regulatory capital. parent company and non-bank subsidiary issuances: at december 31, 2007 and 2006, $486 million and $501 million, respectively, were included in long-term debt related to the capital leases for one lincoln street and the one lincoln street parking garage. see note 18 for additional information. the 7.65% subordinated notes due 2010 qualify as tier 2 regulatory capital under federal regulatory capital guidelines. the 7.35% notes are unsecured. the 9.50% mortgage note was fully collateralized by property at december 31, 2005. the scheduled principal payments for the next two years are $3 million for 2008 and less than $1 million for 2009, at which time the debt will be entirely paid off. in april 2007, the parent company issued $700 million of senior debt, consisting of $250 million of floating-rate notes due in 2012 and $450 million of 5.375% notes due in 2017. interest on the floating-rate notes will be paid quarterly, and on the 5.375% notes will be paid semi-annually. neither the floating-rate notes nor the 5.375% notes may be redeemed prior to maturity. both the floating-rate notes and the 5.375% notes are unsecured. state street bank issuances: state street bank has authority to issue up to an aggregate of $1 billion of subordinated fixed-rate, floating-rate or zero-coupon bank notes with a maturity of five to fifteen years. with respect to the 5.25% subordinated bank notes due 2018, state street bank is required to make semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal balance of the notes on april 15 and october 15 of each year, and the notes qualify for inclusion in tier 2 regulatory capital. with respect to the 5.30% subordinated notes due 2016 and the floating-rate subordinated notes due 2015, state street bank is required to make semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal balance of the 5.30% notes on january 15 and july 15 of each year beginning in july 2006, and quarterly interest payments on the outstanding principal balance of the floating-rate notes on march 8, june 8, september 8 and december 8 of each year beginning in march 2006. the notes qualify for inclusion in tier 2 regulatory capital. 100 note 10. commitments and contingencies off-balance sheet commitments and contingencies: credit-related financial instruments include indemnified securities financing, unfunded commitments to extend credit or purchase assets and standby letters of credit. the total potential loss on unfunded commitments, standby letters of credit and securities finance indemnifications is equal to the total contractual amount, which does not consider the value of any collateral. the following is a summary of the contractual amount of credit-related, off-balance sheet financial instruments at december 31. amounts reported do not reflect participations to independent third parties. (in millions) 2007 2006 indemnified securities financing $ 558,368 $ 506,032 liquidity asset purchase agreements 35,339 30,251 unfunded commitments to extend credit 17,533 16,354 standby letters of credit 4,711 4,926 on behalf of our customers, we lend their securities to creditworthy brokers and other institutions. in certain circumstances, we may indemnify our customers for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. collateral funds received in connection with our securities finance services are held by us as agent and are not recorded in our consolidated statement of condition. we require the borrowers to provide collateral in an amount equal to or in excess of 100% of the fair market value of the securities borrowed. the borrowed securities are revalued daily to determine if additional collateral is necessary. in this regard, we held, as agent, cash and u.s. government securities totaling $572.93 billion and $527.37 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. approximately 82% of the unfunded commitments to extend credit and liquidity asset purchase agreements expire within one year from the date of issue. since many of the commitments are expected to expire or renew without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. in the normal course of business, we provide liquidity and credit enhancements to asset-backed commercial paper programs, referred to as "conduits." these conduits are described in note 11. the commercial paper issuances and commitments of the conduits to provide funding are supported by liquidity asset purchase agreements and backup liquidity lines of credit, the majority of which are provided by us. in addition, we provide direct credit support to the conduits in the form of standby letters of credit. our commitments under liquidity asset purchase agreements and back-up lines of credit totaled $28.37 billion at december 31, 2007, and are included in the preceding table. our commitments under standby letters of credit totaled $1.04 billion at december 31, 2007, and are also included in the preceding table. deterioration in asset performance or certain other factors affecting the liquidity of the commercial paper may shift the asset risk from the commercial paper investors to us as the liquidity or credit enhancement provider. in addition, the conduits may need to draw upon the back-up facilities to repay maturing commercial paper. in these instances, we would either acquire the assets of the conduits or make loans to the conduits secured by the conduits' assets. in the normal course of business, we offer products that provide book value protection primarily to plan participants in stable value funds of postretirement defined contribution benefit plans, particularly 401(k) plans. the book value protection is provided on portfolios of intermediate, investment grade fixed-income securities, and is intended to provide safety and stable growth of principal invested. the protection is intended to cover any shortfall in the event that a significant number of plan participants 101 withdraw funds when book value exceeds market value and the liquidation of the assets is not sufficient to redeem the participants. to manage our exposure, we impose significant restrictions and constraints on the timing and cause of the withdrawals, the manner in which the portfolio is liquidated and the funds are accessed, and the investment parameters of the underlying portfolio. these constraints, combined with structural protections, are designed to provide adequate cushion and guard against payments even under extreme stress scenarios. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the notional amount of these guarantees totaled $44.99 billion and $38.37 billion, respectively. as of december 31, 2007, we have not made a payment under these products, and management believes that the probability of payment under these guarantees is remote. in the normal course of business, we hold assets under custody and management in a custodial or fiduciary capacity. management conducts regular reviews of its responsibilities in this regard and considers the results in preparing the consolidated financial statements. in this regard, in the opinion of management, no contingent liabilities existed at december 31, 2007, that would have had a material adverse effect on state street's consolidated financial position or results of operations. legal proceedings: several customers have filed litigation claims against us, some of which are putative class actions purportedly on behalf of customers invested in certain of state street global advisors', or "ssga's", active fixed-income strategies. these claims related to investment losses in one or more of ssga's strategies that included sub-prime investments. in december 2007, we established a reserve of approximately $625 million to address legal exposure associated with the under-performance of certain active fixed-income strategies managed by ssga and customer concerns as to whether the execution of these strategies was consistent with the customers' investment intent. these strategies were adversely impacted by exposure to, and the lack of liquidity in, sub-prime mortgage markets that resulted from the disruption in the global securities markets during the second half of 2007. after payments for settlement agreements, the reserve totaled approximately $609 million at december 31, 2007. we are involved in various industry-related and other regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries and subpoenas, as well as legal proceedings including the proceedings related to ssga's active fixed-income strategies referenced above, that arise in the normal course of business. in the opinion of management, after discussion with counsel, these regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries and subpoenas and legal proceedings can be defended or resolved without a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in future periods. tax contingencies: in the normal course of business, we are subject to challenges from u.s. and non-u.s. income tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. these challenges may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. as a result of its review of our 1997 - 1999 income tax returns, the irs proposed to disallow tax losses resulting from leveraged leases known as lease-in, lease-out, or lilo, transactions. we appealed the disallowance and finalized a settlement with the irs during the fourth quarter of 2007. we had sufficient reserves to cover the final settlement agreement. currently, the irs is reviewing our 2000 - 2003 income tax returns. during those years, we entered into leveraged leases known as sale-in, lease-out, or silo, transactions, which the irs has since classified as tax shelters. the irs has proposed to disallow tax losses resulting from these leases. we believe that we reported the tax effects of all silo lease transactions properly based upon applicable statutes, regulations and case law in effect at the time we entered into them, and we expect to appeal the disallowance. 102 while it is unclear whether we will be able to reach an acceptable resolution with the irs, management believes we are sufficiently accrued as of december 31, 2007 for tax exposures, including exposures related to silo transactions, and related interest expense. in future periods, if management revises its evaluation of this tax position, the effect of the revision will be recorded in income tax expense in that period. in note 20, information is provided with respect to our application of the provisions of fasb interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes , to tax positions for certain of our leveraged leases for which the timing of our tax deductions is uncertain. note 11. securitizations and variable interest entities tax-exempt investment programs: in the normal course of business, we structure and sell certificated interests in pools of tax-exempt investment-grade assets, principally to our mutual fund customers. we structure these pools as partnership trusts, and the trusts are recorded in our consolidated statement of condition as municipal securities available for sale and related short-term borrowings. we may also provide liquidity and re-marketing services to the trusts. we transfer assets to the trusts from our investment securities portfolio at adjusted book value, and the trusts finance the acquisition of these assets by selling certificated interests issued by the trusts to third-party investors and to state street as residual holder. these transfers do not meet the de-recognition criteria of sfas no. 140, accounting for the transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities, and therefore are recorded in our consolidated financial statements. the trusts had a weighted-average life of approximately 8.6 years at december 31, 2007, compared to approximately 4.9 years at december 31, 2006. under separate agreements, we provide standby bond purchase agreements to these trusts, which obligate state street to acquire the certificated interests at par value in the event that the re-marketing agent is unable to place the certificated interests with investors. our obligations as standby bond purchase agreement provider terminate in the event of the following credit events: payment default, bankruptcy of issuer or credit enhancement provider, imposition of taxability, or downgrade of an asset held by the trust below investment grade. our commitments to the trusts under these standby bond purchase agreements totaled $3.21 billion at december 31, 2007, none of which were utilized at period-end. in the event that our obligations under these agreements are triggered, no material impact to our consolidated financial position or results of operations is expected to occur, because the bonds are already recorded at fair value in our consolidated statement of condition. asset-backed commercial paper programs: we established our first asset-backed commercial paper program in 1992, primarily to satisfy the demand from our institutional customers, particularly mutual fund customers, for commercial paper for their money market funds. currently, we administer four third-party owned, multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper programs, referred to as "conduits," that purchase financial instruments, predominantly securities, from the capital markets. these conduits, which are structured as special purpose, bankruptcy-remote entities, provide our customers with short-term investment products for cash management and other investment purposes. our relationship with the conduits is contractual. we hold no direct or indirect equity ownership in these entities. under fin 46(r), the conduits meet the definition of variable interest entities. in applying the provisions of fin 46(r), we apply a financial model, referred to as an "expected loss model," to the activities of the conduits to determine the primary beneficiaries of the conduits. as a result of application of this model, we concluded that we were not the primary beneficiary of the conduits, as defined by fin 46(r), and as a result, we do not record these conduits in our consolidated financial statements. the conduits have third-party investors who hold subordinated debt, referred to as "first- 103 loss notes," issued by the conduits. these investors are in a first-loss position and bear the majority of the expected losses, as defined by fin 46(r), of the conduits. we re-perform our expected loss model at least quarterly, and more frequently if specific events occur. during the second half of 2007, as a result of disruption in the global fixed-income securities markets, we reviewed the underlying assumptions incorporated in our fin 46(r) expected loss model. we concluded as of december 31, 2007, that our model assumptions were appropriate and were reflective of market participant assumptions, and appropriately considered the probability of, and potential for, the recurrence of recent events. at december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006, total assets in these unconsolidated conduits were $28.76 billion and $25.25 billion, respectively. our off-balance commitments to the conduits are disclosed in note 10. the conduit structure is not designed to distribute interest-rate and/or foreign currency risk to commercial paper investors or the subordinated note holders. accordingly, the conduits take measures to mitigate these risks through the use of derivative financial instruments. these derivatives are generally with state street bank as a counterparty, and are based upon market observable rates and indices. among the most significant derivatives are basis swaps, whereby the conduit receives its cost of funds and pays libor plus a spread to state street bank. this structure mitigates a portion of the risk of erosion in the expected spread between the conduits' cost of funds and the respective currency libor rate. collateralized debt obligations: we manage a series of collateralized debt obligations, referred to as "cdos." a cdo is a managed investment vehicle which purchases a portfolio of diversified assets. a cdo funds purchases through the issuance of several tranches of debt and equity, the repayment and return of which are linked to the performance of the assets in the cdo. typically, our involvement is as collateral manager. we may also invest in a small percentage of the debt issued. these entities typically meet the definition of a variable interest entity as defined by fin 46(r). we are not the primary beneficiary of these cdos, as defined by fin 46(r), and do not record these cdos in our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, total assets in these cdos were $6.73 billion and $3.48 billion, respectively. we did not acquire or transfer any investment securities to a cdo during 2007 or 2006. note 12. shareholders' equity in march 2007, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 15 million shares of common stock for general corporate purposes, including mitigating the dilutive impact of shares issued under employee benefit plans, in addition to its previous authorization in 2006 of up to 15 million shares, of which 12.2 million shares remained available for purchase at december 31, 2006. we generally employ third-party broker-dealers to acquire shares on the open market in connection with our stock purchase programs. under the above-described authorization, during 2007 we repurchased 13.4 million shares of our common stock, and an additional .6 million shares in january 2008, in connection with a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase program that concluded on january 18, 2008. as of that date, approximately 13.2 million shares remained available for future purchase under the combined authorization described above. in addition, our common shares may be acquired for other deferred compensation plans, held by an external trustee, that are not part of the common stock purchase program. as of december 31, 2007, on a cumulative basis, approximately 396,500 shares have been purchased and are held in trust. these shares are recorded as treasury stock in our consolidated statement of condition. 104 during 2007, 2006 and 2005, we purchased and recorded as treasury stock a total of 13.4 million shares, 5.8 million shares and 13.1 million shares, respectively, at an average historical cost per share of approximately $75, $63 and $51, respectively. accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income consisted of the following components as of december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 foreign currency translation $ 331 $ 197 $ 73 unrealized gain (loss) on hedges of net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries (15 ) (7 ) 11 unrealized loss on available-for-sale securities (678 ) (227 ) (285 ) unrealized loss on fair value hedges of available-for-sale securities (55 ) minimum pension liability (146 ) (186 ) (26 ) unrealized loss on cash flow hedges (12 ) (1 ) (4 ) total $ (575 ) $ (224 ) $ (231 ) for the year ended december 31, 2007, we realized net gains of $7 million on sales of available-for-sale securities. unrealized losses of $32 million were included in other comprehensive income at december 31, 2006, net of deferred taxes of $19 million, related to these sales. for the year ended december 31, 2006, we realized net gains of $15 million on sales of available-for-sale securities. unrealized losses of $7 million were included in other comprehensive income at december 31, 2005, net of deferred taxes of $4 million, related to these sales. for the year ended december 31, 2005, we realized net losses of $1 million on sales of available-for-sale securities. unrealized gains of $1 million were included in other comprehensive income at december 31, 2004, net of deferred taxes of less than $1 million, related to these sales. note 13. equity-based compensation we have a 2006 equity incentive plan, with 20,000,000 shares of common stock approved for issuance for stock and stock-based awards, including stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock and performance awards. in addition, up to 8,000,000 shares from our 1997 equity incentive plan, that were available to issue or become available due to cancellations and forfeitures, may be awarded under the 2006 plan. the 1997 plan expired on december 18, 2006. as of december 31, 2006, 1,305,420 shares from the 1997 plan have been added to and may be awarded from the 2006 plan. as of december 31, 2007, 6,369,222 shares have been awarded under the 2006 plan. we have stock options outstanding from previous plans, including the 1997 plan, under which no further grants can be made. the exercise price of non-qualified and incentive stock options and stock appreciation rights may not be less than the fair value of such shares at the date of grant. stock options and stock appreciation rights issued under the 2006 plan and the 1997 plan generally vest over four years and expire no later than ten years from the date of grant. for restricted stock awards issued under the 2006 plan and the 1997 plan, stock certificates are issued at the time of grant and recipients have dividend and voting rights. in general, these grants vest over three years. for deferred stock awards issued under the 2006 plan and the 1997 plan, no stock is issued at the time of grant. generally, these grants vest over two-, three- or four-year periods. performance awards granted under the 2006 plan and the 1997 plan are earned over a performance period based on achievement of goals, generally over two- to four-year periods. payment for performance awards is made in shares of our common stock equal to its fair market value per share, based on certain financial ratios after the conclusion of each performance period. 105 we record compensation expense, equal to the estimated fair value of the options on the grant date, on a straight-line basis over the options' vesting period. we use a black-scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of the options granted. the weighted-average assumptions used in connection with the option-pricing model were as follows for the years indicated: 2007 2006 2005 dividend yield 1.34 % 1.41 % 1.85 % expected volatility 23.30 26.50 28.70 risk-free interest rate 4.69 4.60 4.19 expected option lives (in years) 7.8 7.8 7.8 compensation expense related to stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, deferred stock awards and performance awards, which we record as a component of salaries and employee benefits expense in our consolidated statement of income, was $272 million, $208 million and $110 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the related total income tax benefit recorded in our consolidated statement of income was $109 million, $83 million and $44 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. information about the 2006 plan and 1997 plan as of december 31, 2007, and activity during the year then ended, is presented below: shares (in thousands) weighted average exercise price weighted average remaining contractual term (in years) aggregate intrinsic value (in millions) stock options and stock appreciation rights outstanding at december 31, 2005 23,956 $ 44.60 granted 972 62.63 exercised (4,823 ) 40.81 forfeited or expired (316 ) 51.32 outstanding at december 31, 2006 19,789 46.28 granted 1,091 70.59 exercised (4,415 ) 42.36 forfeited or expired (97 ) 47.12 outstanding at december 31, 2007 16,368 $ 48.94 5.1 $ 528 exercisable at december 31, 2007 13,409 $ 46.48 4.4 $ 466 the weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $22.44, $21.09 and $14.38, respectively. the total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, was $129 million, $102 million and $56 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2007, total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options and stock appreciation rights was $26 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 25 months. 106 other stock awards and related activity consisted of the following for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2007: shares (in thousands) weighted-average grant date fair value restricted stock awards outstanding at december 31, 2005 378 $ 46.82 granted 184 62.62 vested (168 ) 46.49 forfeited (21 ) 51.12 outstanding at december 31, 2006 373 54.42 granted 401 69.06 vested (201 ) 54.75 forfeited (19 ) 64.50 outstanding at december 31, 2007 554 $ 64.77 the weighted-average grant date fair value of restricted stock awards granted in 2005 was $45.26 per share. the total fair value of restricted stock awards vested was $11 million, $8 million and $8 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. as of december 31, 2007, total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock was $23 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 22 months. shares (in thousands) weighted-average grant date fair value deferred stock awards outstanding at december 31, 2005 3,203 $ 43.60 granted 3,083 60.94 vested (1,270 ) 43.80 forfeited (162 ) 53.33 outstanding at december 31, 2006 4,854 54.21 granted 3,542 68.33 vested (2,289 ) 52.26 forfeited (235 ) 62.50 outstanding at december 31, 2007 5,872 $ 63.26 the weighted-average grant date fair value of deferred stock awards granted in 2005 was $43.40 per share. the total fair value of deferred stock awards vested was $120 million, $56 million and $14 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. as of december 31, 2007, total unrecognized compensation cost related to deferred stock awards was $208 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 25 months. shares (in thousands) weighted-average grant date fair value performance awards outstanding at december 31, 2005 1,283 $ 48.52 granted 959 59.87 forfeited (193 ) 52.71 paid out (160 ) 52.78 outstanding at december 31, 2006 1,889 53.49 granted 1,203 67.84 forfeited (161 ) 59.23 paid out (673 ) 44.25 outstanding at december 31, 2007 2,258 $ 63.02 107 the weighted-average grant date fair value of performance awards granted in 2005 was $47.91 per share. the total fair value of performance awards paid out was $33 million, $9 million and $12 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. as of december 31, 2007, total unrecognized compensation cost related to performance awards was $55 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 22 months. we generally utilize treasury shares to satisfy the issuance of stock under our equity incentive plans. we do not have a specific policy concerning purchases of our common stock to satisfy stock issuances, including exercises of options. we have a general policy concerning purchases of stock to meet common stock issuances under our employee benefit plans, including option exercises and other corporate purposes. various factors determine the amount and timing of our purchases of our common stock, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue under employee benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our common stock), and legal considerations. these factors can change at any time, and there can be no assurance as to the number of shares of common stock we will purchase or when we will purchase them. note 14. regulatory matters regulatory capital: we are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by federal banking agencies. failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on our consolidated financial condition. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, we must meet specific capital requirements that involve quantitative measures of our consolidated assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures as calculated in accordance with regulatory accounting practices. our capital amounts and classification are subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require state street and state street bank to maintain minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios as set forth in the following table. the risk-based capital ratios are tier 1 capital and total capital divided by adjusted total risk-weighted assets and market-risk equivalents, and the tier 1 leverage ratio is tier 1 capital divided by adjusted quarterly average assets. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, state street and state street bank met all capital adequacy requirements to which they were subject. as of december 31, 2007, state street bank was categorized as "well capitalized" under the regulatory framework. to be categorized as "well capitalized," state street bank must exceed the "well capitalized" guideline ratios, as set forth in the table, and meet certain other requirements. state street bank exceeded all "well capitalized" requirements as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. there are no conditions or events since december 31, 2007 that management believes have changed the capital category of state street bank. 108 the regulatory capital ratios and related amounts were as follows as of december 31: regulatory guidelines(1) state street state street bank (dollars in millions) minimum well capitalized 2007 2006 2007 2006 risk-based ratios: tier 1 capital 4 % 6 % 11.2 % 13.7 % 11.2 % 12.0 % total capital 8 10 12.7 15.9 12.7 14.1 tier 1 leverage ratio 4 5 5.3 5.8 5.5 5.6 shareholders' equity $ 11,299 $ 7,252 $ 11,932 $ 6,769 capital trust securities 975 650 unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities 733 227 745 239 unrealized losses on cash flow hedges 11 5 deferred tax liability associated with acquisitions 526 526 recognition of pension plan funded status 145 164 145 163 less: goodwill 4,567 1,384 4,480 1,297 other intangible assets 1,990 434 1,958 401 other deductions 1 2 tier 1 capital 7,131 6,473 6,915 5,473 qualifying subordinated debt 1,118 1,178 998 998 allowances for on- and off-balance sheet credit exposures 31 30 31 30 unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities 3 10 2 1 tier 2 capital 1,152 1,218 1,031 1,029 deduction for investments in finance subsidiaries (212 ) (184 ) (68 ) (62 ) total capital $ 8,071 $ 7,507 $ 7,878 $ 6,440 adjusted total risk-weighted assets and market-risk equivalents: on-balance sheet $ 42,968 $ 31,447 $ 41,283 $ 30,000 off-balance sheet 20,248 15,371 20,254 15,375 market-risk equivalents 321 395 317 394 total $ 63,537 $ 47,213 $ 61,854 $ 45,769 adjusted quarterly average assets $ 135,686 $ 110,794 $ 126,746 $ 97,132 (1) state street bank must meet the regulatory designation of "well capitalized" in order for us to maintain our status as a financial holding company, including maintaining a minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio (tier 1 capital divided by adjusted total risk-weighted assets and market-risk equivalents) of 6%, a minimum total risk-based capital ratio (total capital divided by adjusted total risk-weighted assets and market-risk equivalents) of 10%, and a tier 1 leverage ratio (tier 1 capital divided by adjusted quarterly average assets) of 5%. in addition, federal reserve regulation y defines "well capitalized" for a bank holding company such as us for purposes of determining eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals. for such regulation y purposes, "well capitalized" requires us to maintain a minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 10%. 109 cash, dividend, loan and other restrictions: during 2007, our bank subsidiaries were required by the federal reserve to maintain average cash reserve balances of $53 million. in addition, federal and state banking regulations place certain restrictions on dividends paid by bank subsidiaries to a parent holding company. for 2008, aggregate dividends by state street bank without prior regulatory approval are limited to approximately $1.78 billion of its undistributed earnings at december 31, 2007, plus an additional amount equal to its net profits, as defined, for 2008 up to the date of any dividend. the federal reserve act requires that extensions of credit by state street bank to certain affiliates, including the parent company, be secured by specific collateral, that the extension of credit to any one affiliate be limited to 10% of its capital and surplus (as defined), and that extensions of credit to all such affiliates be limited to 20% of its capital and surplus. at december 31, 2007, consolidated retained earnings included $295 million representing undistributed earnings of affiliates that are accounted for using the equity method. note 15. derivative financial instruments we use derivatives to support customers' needs, conduct trading activities, and manage our interest-rate and currency risk. as part of our trading activities, we assume positions in both the foreign exchange and interest-rate markets by buying and selling cash instruments and using derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign exchange and interest-rate options, and interest-rate swaps. in the aggregate, long and short foreign exchange forward positions are matched closely to minimize currency and interest-rate risk. all foreign exchange contracts are valued daily at current market rates. interest-rate contracts involve an agreement with a counterparty to exchange cash flows based on the movement of an underlying interest-rate index. an interest-rate swap agreement involves the exchange of a series of interest payments, either at a fixed or variable rate, based upon the notional amount without the exchange of the underlying principal amount. an interest-rate option contract provides the purchaser, for a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to receive an interest rate based upon a predetermined notional value during a specified period. an interest-rate futures contract is a commitment to buy or sell, at a future date, a financial instrument at a contracted price; it may be settled in cash or through the delivery of the contracted instrument. foreign exchange contracts involve an agreement to exchange one currency for another currency at an agreed-upon rate and settlement date. foreign exchange contracts generally consist of cross-currency swap agreements and foreign exchange forward and spot contracts. 110 the following table summarizes the contractual, or notional, amounts of derivative financial instruments held or issued for trading and asset and liability management as of december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 trading: interest-rate contracts: swap agreements $ 11,637 $ 5,782 options and caps purchased 1,241 1,216 options and caps written 5,519 3,224 futures 957 154 options on futures purchased 2,245 foreign exchange contracts: forward, swap and spot 732,013 492,063 options purchased 21,538 8,313 options written 20,967 8,063 credit derivative contracts: credit default swap agreements 238 155 equity derivative contracts: swap agreements 72 asset and liability management: interest-rate contracts: swap agreements 3,494 2,770 foreign exchange contracts: forward 146 132 in connection with our asset and liability management activities, we have executed interest-rate swap agreements designated as fair value and cash flow hedges to manage interest-rate risk. the notional values of these interest-rate swap agreements and the related assets or liabilities being hedged are presented in the following table. hedge ineffectiveness for 2007, 2006 and 2005, recorded in processing fees and other revenue, was not material. 2007 2006 (in millions) fair value hedges cash flow hedges total fair value hedges cash flow hedges total available-for-sale investment securities $ 2,226 $ 2,226 $ 1,452 $ 1,452 interest-bearing time deposits(1) 118 118 118 $ 300 418 long-term debt(2)(3) 700 $ 450 1,150 700 200 900 total $ 3,044 $ 450 $ 3,494 $ 2,270 $ 500 $ 2,770 (1) for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, the overall weighted-average interest rate for interest-bearing time deposits was 5.42% and 5.02%, respectively, on a contractual basis, and 5.47% and 3.52%, respectively, including the effects of hedges. (2) for the year ended december 31, 2007, fair value hedges of long-term debt increased the carrying value of long-term debt presented in our consolidated statement of condition by $19 million, and for the year ended december 31, 2006, decreased the carrying value by $9 million. (3) for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, the overall weighted-average interest rate for long-term debt was 6.55% and 6.72%, respectively, on a contractual basis, and 6.62% and 6.77%, respectively, including the effects of hedges. 111 for cash flow hedges, any changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments remain in accumulated other comprehensive income and are generally recorded in our consolidated statement of income in future periods when earnings are affected by the variability of the hedged cash flow. we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of &euro;100 million, or approximately $146 million, to hedge a portion of our net foreign investment in non-u.s. subsidiaries. as a result, approximately $8 million and $18 million of after-tax translation losses for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, on the hedge contracts were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. foreign exchange trading revenue related to foreign exchange contracts was $802 million, $611 million and $468 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. future cash requirements, if any, related to foreign exchange contracts are represented by the gross amount of currencies to be exchanged under each contract unless we and the counterparty have agreed to pay or receive the net contractual settlement amount on the settlement date. note 16. net interest revenue (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 interest revenue: deposits with banks $ 416 $ 414 $ 529 investment securities: u.s. treasury and federal agencies 1,106 1,011 866 state and political subdivisions 205 88 58 other investments 2,292 1,830 873 securities purchased under resale agreements and federal funds sold 756 663 412 loans and leases 382 270 171 trading account assets 55 48 21 total interest revenue 5,212 4,324 2,930 interest expense: deposits 2,298 1,891 1,132 other short-term borrowings 959 1,145 753 long-term debt 225 178 138 total interest expense 3,482 3,214 2,023 net interest revenue $ 1,730 $ 1,110 $ 907 note 17. employee benefits state street bank and certain of its u.s. subsidiaries participate in a non-contributory, tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan. effective january 1, 2008, this plan was amended. after december 31, 2007, there will be no further employer contribution credits to the defined benefit pension plan. employee account balances will continue to earn annual interest credits until retirement. in addition to the defined benefit pension plan, we have non-qualified unfunded supplemental retirement plans, referred to as "serps," that provide certain officers with defined pension benefits in excess of allowable qualified plan limits. non-u.s. employees participate in local defined benefit plans. state street bank and certain of its u.s. subsidiaries participate in a post-retirement plan that provides health care and insurance benefits for retired employees. 112 combined information for the u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans, and information for the post-retirement plan, is as follows as of the december 31 measurement date: primary u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans post-retirement plan (in millions) 2007 2006 2007 2006 benefit obligations: beginning of year $ 833 $ 759 $ 90 $ 79 service cost 62 59 4 4 interest cost 44 39 5 5 employee contributions 1 plan amendments (10 ) acquisitions and transfers in 18 actuarial losses/(gains) (42 ) (4 ) 4 9 benefits paid (44 ) (47 ) (7 ) (7 ) expenses paid (3 ) (1 ) curtailments (47 ) foreign currency translation 9 27 end of year $ 830 $ 833 $ 86 $ 90 plan assets at fair value: beginning of year $ 821 $ 706 actual return on plan assets 60 84 employer contributions 18 57 $ 7 $ 6 acquisitions and transfers in 19 benefits paid (44 ) (47 ) (7 ) (6 ) expenses paid (3 ) (1 ) foreign currency translation 7 22 end of year $ 878 $ 821 $ $ accrued benefit expense: funded status (plan assets less benefit obligations) $ 48 $ (12 ) $ (86 ) $ (90 ) net prepaid (accrued) benefit expense $ 48 $ (12 ) $ (86 ) $ (90 ) 113 primary u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans post-retirement plan (in millions) 2007 2006 2007 2006 amounts recognized in the consolidated statement of condition as of december 31: non-current assets $ 93 $ 53 current liabilities $ (7 ) $ (8 ) noncurrent liabilities (45 ) (65 ) (79 ) (82 ) net prepaid (accrued) amount recognized in statement of condition $ 48 $ (12 ) $ (86 ) $ (90 ) amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income: initial net obligation $ (5 ) prior service credit $ 20 $ 6 net loss $ (110 ) (217 ) (32 ) (29 ) accumulated other comprehensive loss (110 ) (197 ) (26 ) (34 ) cumulative employer contributions in excess of net periodic benefit cost 158 185 (60 ) (56 ) net asset (obligation) recognized in consolidated statement of condition $ 48 $ (12 ) $ (86 ) $ (90 ) determination of adjustment related to adoption of sfas no. 158: liability before adoption of the funded status provisions of sfas no. 158 $ 31 accumulated other comprehensive loss before adoption of funded status recognition provisions of sfas no. 158 31 transition obligation after adoption of funded status provisions of sfas no. 158 $ 5 prior service cost (20 ) net loss 217 29 accumulated other comprehensive loss after adoption of funded status recognition provisions of sfas no. 158 $ 197 $ 34 increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss, before taxes, to reflect the adoption of sfas no. 158 $ 166 $ 34 accumulated benefit obligation $ 793 $ 751 actuarial assumptions (u.s. plans): used to determine benefit obligations as of december 31: discount rate 6.00 % 5.75 % 6.00 % 5.75 % rate of increase for future compensation 4.50 4.50 used to determine periodic benefit cost for the years ended december 31: discount rate 6.00 % 5.50 % 5.75 % 5.50 % rate of increase for future compensation 4.50 4.50 expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.50 8.00 assumed health care cost trend rates as of december 31: cost trend rate assumed for next year 9.5 % 10.00 % rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline 5.00 5.00 year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2015 2013 114 expected benefit payments for the next ten years are as follows: (in millions) primary u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans non- qualified serps post- retirement plan 2008 $ 36 $ 6 $ 7 2009 35 8 7 2010 35 10 7 2011 31 21 7 2012 25 22 7 2013-2017 123 74 32 the accumulated benefit obligation for all of our u.s. defined benefit pension plans was $696 million and $613 million at december 31, 2007, and 2006, respectively. to develop the assumption of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we considered the historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target asset allocation of the pension portfolio. this analysis resulted in the determination of the assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets of 7.50% for the year ended december 31, 2007. for the tax-qualified u.s. defined benefit pension plan, the asset allocations as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the strategic target allocation for 2008, by asset category, were as follows: asset category strategic target allocation percentage of plan assets at december 31, 2008 2007 2006 equity securities 43 % 46 % 46 % fixed-income securities 46 45 45 other 11 9 9 total 100 % 100 % 100 % the preceding strategic target asset allocation was last amended effective july 31, 2006. consistent with that target allocation, the plan should generate a real return above inflation, and superior to that of a benchmark index consisting of a combination of appropriate capital market indices weighted in the same proportions as the plan's strategic target asset allocation. equities included domestic and international publicly-traded common, preferred and convertible securities. fixed-income securities included domestic and international corporate and government debt securities, as well as asset-backed securities and private debt. the "other" category included real estate, alternative investments and cash and cash equivalents. derivative financial instruments are an acceptable alternative to investing in these types of securities, but may not be used to leverage the plan's portfolio. expected employer contributions to the tax-qualified u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit pension plan, serps and post-retirement plan for the year ending december 31, 2008 are $12 million, $6 million and $7 million, respectively. 115 state street has unfunded serps that provide certain officers with defined pension benefits in excess of qualified plan limits imposed by u.s. federal tax law. information for the serps was as follows for the years ended december 31: non-qualified serps (in millions) 2007 2006 benefit obligations: beginning of year $ 142 $ 107 service cost 12 6 interest cost 10 7 acquisitions and transfers in 9 actuarial loss 85 24 benefits paid (6 ) (6 ) curtailments (41 ) plan amendments 4 end of year $ 211 $ 142 accrued benefit expense: funded status (plan assets less benefit obligations) $ (211 ) $ (142 ) net accrued benefit expense $ (211 ) $ (142 ) amounts recognized in the consolidated statement of condition as of december 31: current liabilities $ (8 ) $ (7 ) non-current liabilities (203 ) (135 ) net accrued amount recognized in consolidated statement of condition $ (211 ) $ (142 ) amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income: prior service cost $ (19 ) net loss $ (103 ) (59 ) accumulated other comprehensive loss (103 ) (78 ) cumulative employer contributions in excess of net periodic benefit cost (108 ) (64 ) net obligation recognized in consolidated statement of condition $ (211 ) $ (142 ) determination of adjustment related to adoption of sfas no. 158: liability before adoption of funded status provisions of sfas no. 158 $ 32 actual intangible asset 18 accumulated other comprehensive loss before adoption of funded status provisions of sfas no. 158 14 prior service cost 19 net loss 59 accumulated other comprehensive loss after adoption of funded status provisions of sfas no. 158 $ 78 increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss, before taxes, to reflect the adoption of sfas no. 158 $ 64 accumulated benefit obligation $ 148 $ 96 actuarial assumptions: assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and periodic benefit costs are consistent with those noted for the post-retirement plan, with the following exceptions: rate of increase for future compensation serps 4.75 % 4.75 % rate of increase for future compensation executive serps 10.00 % 116 for those defined benefit plans that have accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the accumulated benefit obligations are $44 million and $326 million, respectively, and the plan assets are $21 million and $200 million, respectively. for those defined benefit plans that have projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the projected benefit obligations are $316 million and $411 million, respectively, and the plan assets are $237 million and $204 million, respectively. if trend rates in health care costs were increased by 1%, the post-retirement benefit obligation as of december 31, 2007, would have increased 6%, and the aggregate expense for service and interest costs for 2007 would have increased 9%. conversely, if trend rates in health care costs were reduced by 1%, the post-retirement benefit obligation as of december 31, 2007, would have decreased 6%, and the aggregate expense for service and interest costs for 2007 would have decreased 8%. the following table presents the actuarially determined expense for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans, post-retirement plan and serps for the years ended december 31: primary u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans post-retirement plan (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 components of net periodic benefit cost: service cost $ 62 $ 59 $ 50 $ 3 $ 4 $ 3 interest cost 44 39 35 5 5 4 assumed return on plan assets (55 ) (53 ) (45 ) amortization of transition obligation (asset) 1 1 1 amortization of prior service cost (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) amortization of net loss 12 17 15 1 2 1 net periodic benefit cost 61 60 53 10 12 9 special events accounting expense: curtailments (19 ) special termination benefits 1 special events accounting expense (19 ) 1 total expense $ 42 $ 60 $ 54 $ 10 $ 12 $ 9 estimated amounts that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income over the next fiscal year: initial net asset $ (1 ) prior service credit $ 2 $ 1 net gain (loss) $ (4 ) (14 ) (1 ) (1 ) estimated amortization $ (4 ) $ (12 ) $ $ (2 ) 117 non-qualified serps (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 components of net periodic benefit cost: service cost $ 12 $ 6 $ 4 interest cost 10 7 5 amortization of prior service cost 2 2 2 amortization of net loss 5 4 2 net periodic benefit cost 29 19 13 special events accounting expense: settlements 2 curtailments 13 special events accounting expense 13 2 total expense $ 42 $ 19 $ 15 estimated amounts that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income over the next fiscal year: prior service cost $ (2 ) net loss $ (9 ) (4 ) estimated amortization $ (9 ) $ (6 ) certain of our u.s. employees are eligible to contribute a portion of their pre-tax salary to a 401(k) savings plan and an employee stock ownership plan, referred to as an "esop." our matching portion of these contributions is paid in cash, and the related expense was $25 million for 2007, $20 million for 2006 and $21 million for 2005. in addition, employees in certain non-u.s. offices participate in other local plans. expenses related to these plans were $33 million, $32 million and $39 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the esop is a non-leveraged plan. compensation cost is equal to the contribution called for by the plan formula and is equal to the cash contributed for the purchase of shares on the open market or the fair value of the shares contributed from treasury stock. dividends on shares held by the esop are charged to retained earnings, and shares are treated as outstanding for purposes of calculating earnings per share. note 18. occupancy expense and information systems and communications expense occupancy expense and information systems and communications expense includes expense for depreciation of buildings, leasehold improvements, computers, equipment and furniture and fixtures. total depreciation expense for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $319 million, $309 million and $315 million, respectively. we lease approximately 865,000 square feet at one lincoln street, an office building located in boston, massachusetts, and a related 366,000 square-foot underground parking garage, under 20-year, non-cancelable capital leases expiring in september 2023. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, an aggregate net book value of $421 million and $447 million, respectively, for the capital leases was recorded in premises and equipment in our consolidated statement of condition, and the related liability was recorded in long-term debt. capital lease asset amortization is recorded in occupancy expense over the lease terms. lease payments are recorded as a reduction of the liability, with a portion recorded as imputed interest expense. for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, interest expense related to these capital lease obligations, recorded in net interest revenue, was $36 million and $37 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, accumulated amortization of assets under capital leases was $110 million and $84 million, respectively. 118 we have entered into non-cancelable operating leases for premises and equipment. nearly all leases include renewal options. costs related to operating leases for office space are recorded in occupancy expense. costs related to operating leases for computers and equipment are recorded in information systems and communications expense. total rental expense, net of sublease revenue, amounted to $199 million, $179 million and $181 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. rental expense has been reduced by sublease revenue of $15 million, $13 million and $10 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. during 2007, we terminated an operating lease related to one of our office buildings in boston. the lease was terminated in connection with an overall evaluation of our requirements for office space as a result of our acquisition of investors financial. the termination of the lease resulted in the recognition of a charge of approximately $91 million, which was included in the merger and integration costs recorded in connection with the acquisition. during 2005, we entered into sub-lease agreements for our headquarters building and other office space in boston. these sub-lease agreements resulted in the recognition of charges to occupancy expense of $26 million for the year ended december 31, 2005. the following is a summary of future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable capital and operating leases as of december 31, 2007. future minimum rental commitments have been reduced by aggregate sublease rental commitments of $77 million for capital leases and $138 million for operating leases. the increase in future lease payments compared to amounts reported in prior years resulted from the addition of approximately 1 million square feet of office space in connection with our acquisition of investors financial. (in millions) capital leases operating leases total 2008 $ 52 $ 225 $ 277 2009 52 219 271 2010 52 199 251 2011 52 164 216 2012 52 160 212 thereafter 563 913 1,476 total minimum lease payments 823 $ 1,880 $ 2,703 less amount representing interest payments (337 ) present value of minimum lease payments $ 486 note 19. other operating expenses the components of other operating expenses were as follows for the years ended december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 professional services $ 236 $ 157 $ 184 amortization of intangible assets 92 43 43 other 478 318 257 total other operating expenses $ 806 $ 518 $ 484 119 note 20. income taxes the components of income tax expense from continuing operations consisted of the following for the years ended december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 current: federal $ 424 $ 328 $ 185 state 133 82 46 non-u.s. 338 265 139 total current 895 675 370 deferred: federal (155 ) 27 83 state (59 ) (9 ) 14 non-u.s. (39 ) (18 ) 20 total deferred (253 ) 117 total income tax expense from continuing operations $ 642 $ 675 $ 487 the income tax expense (benefit) related to net realized securities gains or losses was $3 million, $6 million and $(1) million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. pre-tax income from continuing operations attributable to operations located outside the u.s. was $1.13 billion, $759 million and $494 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. for those foreign subsidiaries for which accumulated earnings of the subsidiary are considered to be permanently invested, no provision for deferred u.s. income taxes is recorded. the total undistributed retained earnings of these subsidiaries was $561 million at december 31, 2007. if the accumulated earnings in these subsidiaries had been temporarily invested, a deferred u.s. tax liability of $107 million would have been recorded. income tax expense from continuing operations for 2006 included an additional provision of $35 million primarily related to the impact of the tax increase prevention and reconciliation act on income generated from certain of our leveraged leases, more fully described below, and $46 million related to the potential resolution of issues with the irs concerning our lilo and silo transactions. additional information about contingencies related to lilo and silo transactions is in note 10. during 2006, tipra repealed the federal income tax exclusion, effective on january 1, 2007, which was previously allowed for a portion of the income generated from certain leveraged leases of aircraft. as a result of this legislation, and in accordance with existing lease accounting standards, we recalculated the allocation of the components of leasing-related income over the terms of the affected leases and recorded a non-cash charge to income tax expense of approximately $35 million primarily related to the impact of this legislation. 120 significant components of deferred tax liabilities and assets were as follows at december 31: (in millions) 2007 2006 deferred tax liabilities: lease financing transactions $ 1,177 $ 1,779 foreign currency translation 152 90 fixed and intangible assets 731 112 total deferred tax liabilities 2,060 1,981 deferred tax assets: unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, net 486 153 deferred compensation 122 108 pension 85 81 operating expenses 402 61 real estate 56 26 other 79 38 total deferred tax assets 1,230 467 net deferred tax liabilities $ 830 $ 1,514 a reconciliation of the u.s. statutory income tax rate to the effective tax rate based on income from continuing operations before income taxes was as follows for the years ended december 31: 2007 2006 2005 u.s. federal income tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % changes from statutory rate: state taxes, net of federal benefit 2.2 2.9 3.3 tax-exempt income (1.7 ) (1.1 ) (1.5 ) tax credits (1.6 ) (1.4 ) (1.3 ) foreign tax differential (2.2 ) (1.2 ) (1.0 ) provision related to tipra 1.8 provision related to lilo and silo transactions 2.0 2.6 other, net (.5 ) (.5 ) effective tax rate 33.7 % 38.1 % 34.0 % as discussed in note 1, we applied the provisions of fasb interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 , on january 1, 2007. the application of the interpretation's provisions did not change our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. an analysis of activity related to unrecognized tax benefits follows: (in millions) 2007 balance at beginning of year $ 662 additions for tax positions of prior years 150 settlements (507 ) balance at end of year $ 305 included in the balance at december 31, 2007 is $285 million of tax positions for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, the disallowance of the shorter deductibility period would not affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period. settlements include amounts remitted during 2007 and identified amounts to be remitted in 2008. 121 we record interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense. we recognized interest expense of approximately $38 million and $46 million for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. we had approximately $83 million and $95 million accrued at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, for the payment of interest. the earliest year open to examination in our major jurisdictions is 2000. note 21. earnings per share the following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended december 31: (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2007 2006 2005 net income $ 1,261 $ 1,106 $ 838 average shares outstanding (in thousands): basic average shares 360,675 331,350 330,361 effect of dilutive securities: stock options and stock awards 4,788 4,349 2,762 equity-related financial instruments 25 33 1,513 diluted average shares 365,488 335,732 334,636 anti-dilutive securities (in thousands)(1) 1,091 973 8,791 earnings per share basic $ 3.50 $ 3.34 $ 2.53 diluted 3.45 3.29 2.50 (1) represents stock options outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted average shares because the exercise prices of the instruments were greater than the average fair value of our common stock during the periods. note 22. line of business information we report two lines of business: investment servicing and investment management. given our services and management organization, the results of operations for these lines of business are not necessarily comparable with those of other companies, including companies in the financial services industry. investment servicing provides services for u.s. mutual funds, collective investment funds worldwide, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments, and other investment pools. products include custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; recordkeeping; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics to support institutional investors. we provide shareholder services, which include mutual fund and collective investment fund shareholder accounting, through 50%-owned affiliates, boston financial data services, inc. and the international financial data services group of companies. investment management offers a broad array of services for managing financial assets, including investment management and investment research, primarily for institutional investors worldwide. these services include passive and active u.s. and non-u.s. equity and fixed-income investment management strategies, and other related services, such as securities finance. revenue and expenses are directly charged or allocated to the lines of business through management information systems. we price our products and services on the basis of overall customer relationships and other factors; therefore, revenue may not necessarily reflect market pricing on products within the business lines in the same way it would for independent business entities. assets 122 and liabilities are allocated according to rules that support management's strategic and tactical goals. capital is allocated based on risk-weighted assets employed and management's judgment. capital allocations may not be representative of the capital that might be required if these lines of business were independent business entities. the following is a summary of line of business results. results presented exclude the income (loss) from discontinued operations related to our divestiture of bel air, which is discussed in note 2. the amount presented in the "other/one-time" column for 2007 represents merger and integration costs recorded in connection with our acquisition of investors financial. the amount presented in the same column for 2005 represents additional gain from our sale of the private asset management business. the amount presented in the net charge line items are associated with the underperformance of certain active fixed-income strategies managed by ssga, discussed in note 10. investment servicing investment management other/one-time total years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 (dollars in millions, except where otherwise noted) fee revenue: servicing fees $ 3,388 $ 2,723 $ 2,474 $ 3,388 $ 2,723 $ 2,474 management fees $ 1,141 $ 943 $ 751 1,141 943 751 trading services 1,152 862 694 1,152 862 694 securities finance 518 292 260 163 94 70 681 386 330 processing fees and other 162 208 221 75 64 81 237 272 302 total fee revenue 5,220 4,085 3,649 1,379 1,101 902 6,599 5,186 4,551 net interest revenue 1,573 986 826 157 124 81 1,730 1,110 907 provision for loan losses net interest revenue after provision for loan losses 1,573 986 826 157 124 81 1,730 1,110 907 gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net 7 15 (1 ) 7 15 (1 ) gain on sale of divested business $ 16 16 total revenue 6,800 5,086 4,474 1,536 1,225 983 16 8,336 6,311 5,473 operating expenses 4,787 3,742 3,363 981 798 678 5,768 4,540 4,041 net charge(1): provision for legal exposure 600 600 reduction of incentive compensation (47 ) (109 ) (156 ) severance and professional fees 23 23 total net charge (47 ) 514 467 merger and integration costs $ 198 198 total operating expenses 4,740 3,742 3,363 1,495 798 678 198 6,433 4,540 4,041 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 2,060 $ 1,344 $ 1,111 $ 41 $ 427 $ 305 $ (198 ) $ 16 $ 1,903 $ 1,771 $ 1,432 pre-tax margin 30 % 26 % 25 % 3 % 35 % 31 % average assets (in billions) $ 120.0 $ 103.4 $ 96.9 $ 3.5 $ 3.0 $ 2.9 $ 123.5 $ 106.4 $ 99.8 123 note 23. non-u.s. activities we define non-u.s. activities as those revenue-producing assets and business activities that arise from customers domiciled outside the united states. due to the nature of our business, precise segregation of u.s. and non-u.s. activities is not possible. subjective judgments have been applied to determine operating results related to non-u.s. activities, including the application of transfer pricing and asset and liability management policies. interest expense allocations are based on the average cost of short-term borrowed funds. the following table summarizes our non-u.s. operating results for the years ended december 31, and assets as of december 31, based on the domicile location of our customers: (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 results of operations: total fee revenue $ 2,707 $ 2,349 $ 1,881 net interest revenue 713 392 249 total revenue 3,420 2,741 2,130 operating expenses 2,233 1,840 1,589 income before income taxes 1,187 901 541 income tax expense 415 346 205 net income $ 772 $ 555 $ 336 assets: interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 5,574 $ 5,193 $ 11,235 other assets 28,657 19,510 8,800 total assets $ 34,231 $ 24,703 $ 20,035 note 24. fair values of financial instruments fair value estimates are generally subjective in nature, and are made as of a specific point in time based on the characteristics of the financial instruments and relevant market information. disclosure of fair values is not required for certain items, such as lease financing, equity method investments, obligations for pension and other postretirement plans, premises and equipment, other intangible assets and income tax assets and liabilities. accordingly, aggregate fair value amounts presented do not purport to represent, and should not be considered representative of, our underlying "market" or franchise value. in addition, because of potential differences in methodologies and assumptions used to estimate fair values, our fair values should not be compared to those of other financial institutions. we use the following methods to estimate the fair value of financial instruments: for financial instruments that have quoted market prices, those quoted prices are used to determine fair value. financial instruments that have no defined maturity, have a remaining maturity of 180 days or less, or reprice frequently to a market rate are assumed to have a fair value that approximates reported value, after taking into consideration any applicable credit risk. if no quoted market prices are available, financial instruments are valued using third-party pricing services, or by discounting the expected cash flow(s) using an estimated current market interest rate for the financial instrument. for derivative financial instruments, fair value is estimated as the amount at which an asset or liability could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation or sale. 124 the short duration of our assets and liabilities results in a significant number of financial instruments for which fair value equals or closely approximates the value reported in our consolidated statement of condition. these financial instruments are reported in the following captions in our consolidated statement of condition: cash and due from banks; interest-bearing deposits with banks; securities purchased under resale agreements; accrued income receivable; deposits; securities sold under repurchase agreements; federal funds purchased; and other short-term borrowings. the fair value of trading account assets equals their reported value. in addition, due to the relatively short-term nature of our net loans (excluding leases), substantially all of which are due within one year, we have determined that their fair value approximates the reported value. loan commitments have no reported value because terms are at prevailing market rates. the reported value and fair value for other captions in the consolidated statement of condition were as follows as of december 31: (in millions) reported value fair value 2007: financial assets: investment securities: available for sale $ 70,326 $ 70,326 held to maturity 4,233 4,225 net loans (excluding leases) 13,804 13,804 unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments trading 4,450 4,450 unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments asset and liability management 63 63 financial liabilities: long-term debt 3,636 3,446 unrealized losses on derivative financial instruments trading 4,410 4,410 unrealized losses on derivative financial instruments asset and liability management 164 164 2006: financial assets: investment securities: available for sale $ 60,445 $ 60,445 held to maturity 4,457 4,484 net loans (excluding leases) 6,599 6,599 unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments trading 3,006 3,006 unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments asset and liability management 54 54 financial liabilities: long-term debt 2,616 2,695 unrealized losses on derivative financial instruments trading 3,026 3,026 unrealized losses on derivative financial instruments asset and liability management 31 31 125 note 25. parent company financial statements statement of income years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) interest on securities purchased under resale agreements $ 446 $ 559 $ 332 cash dividends from consolidated bank subsidiary 70 415 570 cash dividends from consolidated non-bank subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates 120 177 74 other, net 74 34 42 total revenue 710 1,185 1,018 interest on securities sold under repurchase agreements 360 463 265 other interest expense 208 146 131 other expenses 86 36 6 total expenses 654 645 402 income tax expense (benefit) (76 ) (4 ) 33 income before equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries and affiliates 132 544 583 equity in undistributed income (loss) of subsidiaries and affiliates: consolidated bank subsidiary 1,177 602 165 consolidated non-bank subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates (48 ) (40 ) 90 net income $ 1,261 $ 1,106 $ 838 126 statement of condition as of december 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) assets: interest-bearing deposits with bank subsidiary $ 2,067 $ 841 securities purchased under resale agreements from: external parties 6,798 9,269 consolidated non-bank subsidiary and unconsolidated affiliates 3 21 investment securities available for sale 122 103 investments in subsidiaries: consolidated bank subsidiary 11,932 6,768 consolidated non-bank subsidiaries 876 940 unconsolidated affiliates 184 166 notes and other receivables from: consolidated bank subsidiary 205 3 consolidated non-bank subsidiaries and affiliates 210 120 other assets 149 140 total assets $ 22,546 $ 18,371 liabilities: securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 6,293 $ 8,772 commercial paper 2,355 998 accrued taxes, expenses and other liabilities due to: consolidated bank subsidiary 241 54 consolidated non-bank subsidiaries 11 7 external parties 218 167 long-term debt 2,129 1,121 total liabilities 11,247 11,119 shareholders' equity 11,299 7,252 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 22,546 $ 18,371 127 statement of cash flows years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) net cash provided by operating activities $ 170 $ 497 $ 512 investing activities: net (increase) decrease in interest-bearing deposits with bank subsidiary (1,226 ) (291 ) 580 net (increase) decrease in securities purchased under resale agreements 2,489 (211 ) (6,845 ) purchases of available-for-sale securities (3 ) (2 ) (378 ) sales of available-for-sale securities 4 385 investments in consolidated bank subsidiary (300 ) (5 ) investments in non-bank subsidiaries and affiliates (13 ) 22 (20 ) net decrease in notes receivable from subsidiaries 18 1 15 other 129 141 12 net cash (used in) provided by investing activities 1,098 (345 ) (6,251 ) financing activities: net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings (2,479 ) 148 6,506 net increase (decrease) in commercial paper 1,357 134 (102 ) proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs 1,488 payments for long-term debt (516 ) (345 ) proceeds from spaces, net of issuance costs 345 purchases of common stock (1,002 ) (368 ) (664 ) proceeds from issuance of common stock for stock awards and options exercised 185 193 231 payments for cash dividends (301 ) (259 ) (232 ) net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (1,268 ) (152 ) 5,739 net change cash and due from banks at beginning of year cash and due from banks at end of year $ $ $ 128 statistical disclosure by bank holding companies distribution of average assets, liabilities and shareholders' equity; interest rates and interest differential (unaudited) average statements of condition and net interest revenue analysis for the years indicated are presented below. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (dollars in millions; fully taxable-equivalent basis) average balance interest average rate average balance interest average rate average balance interest average rate assets: interest-bearing deposits with non-u.s. banks $ 7,420 $ 415 5.60 % $ 9,581 $ 412 4.30 % $ 17,186 $ 527 3.07 % interest-bearing deposits with u.s. banks 13 1 7.19 40 2 5.00 74 2 2.60 securities purchased under resale agreements 12,466 664 5.32 12,543 649 5.18 12,579 403 3.21 federal funds sold 1,936 92 4.77 277 14 4.91 311 9 2.82 trading account assets 972 55 5.60 975 48 4.91 470 21 4.39 investment securities: u.s. treasury and federal agencies 21,705 1,106 5.10 21,160 1,011 4.78 24,833 866 3.49 state and political subdivisions(2) 5,268 251 4.79 2,616 115 4.45 1,839 78 4.23 other investments 44,017 2,292 5.21 37,803 1,830 4.84 24,481 873 3.56 commercial and financial loans 8,759 365 4.18 5,338 205 3.84 3,718 106 2.85 lease financing(2) 1,994 29 1.45 2,332 83 3.59 2,295 87 3.81 total interest-earning assets(2) 104,550 5,270 5.04 92,665 4,369 4.72 87,786 2,972 3.39 cash and due from banks 3,272 2,977 2,598 other assets 15,660 10,802 9,385 total assets $ 123,482 $ 106,444 $ 99,769 liabilities and shareholders' equity: interest-bearing deposits: time $ 2,476 135 5.45 $ 1,617 57 3.52 $ 2,058 66 3.19 savings 5,081 178 3.50 836 32 3.81 934 21 2.28 non-u.s. 60,663 1,985 3.27 53,182 1,802 3.39 46,711 1,045 2.24 total interest-bearing deposits 68,220 2,298 3.37 55,635 1,891 3.40 49,703 1,132 2.28 securities sold under repurchase agreements 16,132 701 4.35 20,883 914 4.38 22,432 613 2.73 federal funds purchased 1,667 86 5.15 2,777 140 5.04 2,306 75 3.23 other short-term borrowings 4,225 172 4.09 2,039 91 4.46 1,970 65 3.30 long-term debt 3,402 225 6.62 2,621 178 6.77 2,461 138 5.63 total interest-bearing liabilities 93,646 3,482 3.72 83,955 3,214 3.83 78,872 2,023 2.57 noninterest-bearing deposits: special time 9,836 7,282 6,880 demand 225 663 1,243 non-u.s.(3) 579 329 170 other liabilities 9,769 7,471 6,426 shareholders' equity 9,427 6,744 6,178 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 123,482 $ 106,444 $ 99,769 net interest revenue $ 1,788 $ 1,155 $ 949 excess of rate earned over rate paid 1.32 % .89 % .82 % net interest margin(1) 1.71 1.25 1.08 (1) net interest margin is fully taxable-equivalent net interest revenue divided by average interest-earning assets. (2) fully taxable-equivalent revenue is a method of presentation in which the tax savings achieved by investing in tax-exempt securities are included in interest revenue with a corresponding charge to income tax expense. this method facilitates the comparison of the performance of tax-exempt and taxable securities. the adjustment is computed using a federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes, net of the related federal-tax benefit. the fully taxable-equivalent adjustments included in interest revenue above were $58 million, $45 million and $42 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. (3) non-u.s. noninterest-bearing deposits were $1.02 billion, $326 million and $122 million at december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 129 the table below summarizes changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and interest expense due to changes in volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and due to changes in interest rates. changes attributed to both volumes and rates have been allocated based on the proportion of change in each category. years ended december 31, 2007 compared to 2006 2006 compared to 2005 (dollars in millions; fully taxable-equivalent basis) change in volume change in rate net (decrease) increase change in volume change in rate net (decrease) increase interest revenue related to: interest-bearing deposits with non-u.s. banks $ (93 ) $ 96 $ 3 $ (233 ) $ 118 $ (115 ) interest-bearing deposits with u.s. banks (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) 1 securities purchased under resale agreements (4 ) 19 15 (1 ) 247 246 federal funds sold 81 (3 ) 78 (1 ) 6 5 trading account assets 7 7 22 5 27 investment securities: u.s. treasury and federal agencies 26 69 95 (128 ) 273 145 state and political subdivisions 118 18 136 20 17 37 other investments 300 162 462 488 469 957 commercial and financial loans 130 30 160 46 53 99 lease financing (12 ) (42 ) (54 ) 1 (5 ) (4 ) total interest-earning assets 545 356 901 213 1,184 1,397 interest expense related to: deposits: time 30 48 78 (14 ) 5 (9 ) savings 162 (16 ) 146 (2 ) 13 11 non-u.s. 254 (71 ) 183 145 612 757 securities sold under repurchase agreements (208 ) (5 ) (213 ) (42 ) 343 301 federal funds purchased (56 ) 2 (54 ) 15 50 65 other short-term borrowings 98 (17 ) 81 2 24 26 long-term debt 53 (6 ) 47 10 30 40 total interest-bearing liabilities 333 (65 ) 268 114 1,077 1,191 net interest revenue $ 212 $ 421 $ 633 $ 99 $ 107 $ 206 130 quarterly summarized financial information (unaudited) 2007 quarters 2006 quarters (dollars and shares in millions, fourth third second first fourth third second first except per share amounts) total fee revenue $ 1,910 $ 1,782 $ 1,537 $ 1,370 $ 1,305 $ 1,246 $ 1,375 $ 1,260 interest revenue 1,454 1,383 1,203 1,172 1,226 1,103 1,034 961 interest expense 898 919 818 847 910 837 772 695 net interest revenue 556 464 385 325 316 266 262 266 provision for loan losses net interest revenue after provision for loan losses 556 464 385 325 316 266 262 266 gains (losses) on sales of available-for-sale securities, net 13 (6 ) (1 ) 1 1 3 14 (3 ) total revenue 2,479 2,240 1,921 1,696 1,622 1,515 1,651 1,523 total operating expenses 2,173 1,689 1,358 1,213 1,178 1,090 1,176 1,096 income from continuing operations before income taxes 306 551 563 483 444 425 475 427 income tax expense from continuing operations 83 193 197 169 135 147 248 145 income from continuing operations 223 358 366 314 309 278 227 282 income from discontinued operations 10 net income $ 223 $ 358 $ 366 $ 314 $ 309 $ 278 $ 227 $ 292 earnings per share from continuing operations: basic $ .58 $ .92 $ 1.09 $ .94 $ .93 $ .84 $ .69 $ .85 diluted .57 .91 1.07 .93 .91 .83 .68 .84 income per share from discontinued operations: basic $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ .03 diluted .03 earnings per share: basic $ .58 $ .92 $ 1.09 $ .94 $ .93 $ .84 $ .69 $ .88 diluted .57 .91 1.07 .93 .91 .83 .68 .87 average shares outstanding: basic 385 387 336 334 331 330 331 333 diluted 392 392 341 339 337 336 336 337 dividends per share $ .23 $ .22 $ .22 $ .21 $ .21 $ .20 $ .20 $ .19 stock price: high $ 82.53 $ 73.76 $ 70.58 $ 72.82 $ 68.56 $ 64.35 $ 66.47 $ 63.73 low 66.79 59.13 64.21 61.70 60.96 54.39 56.27 55.42 close 81.20 68.16 68.40 64.75 67.44 62.40 58.09 60.43 131 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a. controls and procedures disclosure controls and procedures: changes in internal control over financial reporting state street has established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that material information relating to state street and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis required to be disclosed in its reports filed or submitted under the securities exchange act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the sec's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to state street management, including its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. for the fiscal quarter ended december 31, 2007, state street carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of state street management, including its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of state street's disclosure controls and procedures. based on the evaluation of these disclosure controls and procedures, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that state street's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of december 31, 2007. state street has also established and maintains internal control over financial reporting as a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states. in the ordinary course of business, state street routinely enhances its internal controls and procedures for financial reporting by either upgrading its current systems or implementing new systems. changes have been made and will be made to state street's internal controls and procedures for financial reporting as a result of these efforts. during the fiscal quarter ended december 31, 2007, there was no change in state street's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, state street's internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting management's report on internal control over financial reporting the management of state street is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements and other financial information contained in this form 10-k. management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. management has designed business processes and internal controls and has also established and is responsible for maintaining a business culture that fosters financial integrity and accurate reporting. to these ends, management maintains a comprehensive system of internal controls intended to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of state street in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. state street's accounting policies and internal control over financial reporting, established and maintained by management, are under the general oversight of state street's board of directors, including state street's examining and audit committee. management has made a comprehensive review, evaluation, and assessment of state street's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007. the standard measures adopted by management in making its evaluation are the measures in the integrated framework published by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (the coso framework). 132 based upon its review and evaluation, management has concluded that state street's internal control over financial reporting is effective at december 31, 2007, and that there were no material weaknesses in state street's internal control over financial reporting as of that date. ernst &amp; young llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, which has audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements contained in this form 10-k, has issued its written attestation report on its assessment of state street's internal control over financial reporting which follows this report. 133 report of independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over financial reporting the shareholders and board of directors state street corporation we have audited state street corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (the coso criteria). state street corporation's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, state street corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, based on the coso criteria. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated statement of condition of state street corporation as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2007 of state street corporation and our report dated february 14, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. boston, massachusetts february 14, 2008 134 item 9b. other information none. part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information concerning our directors will appear in our proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed pursuant to regulation 14a on or before april 30, 2008, under the caption "election of directors." such information is incorporated herein by reference. information about two current directors of state street who will be retiring as directors at the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders is as follows: tenley e. albright, m.d. director since 1993 physician and surgeon. dr. albright, age 72, director, collaborative initiatives at mit, is chairman of western resources, inc., a real estate holding company. dr. albright's concentration in medicine and health services stems from her specialty of general surgery over 23 years. she is a faculty member and lecturer in surgery at harvard medical school and an honorary member of new england baptist hospital. dr. albright is consultant to and formerly chairman of the board of regents of the national library of medicine at the national institutes of health. she has served on the board of the whitehead institute for biomedical research, was recently elected to the board of research!america, and is a member of the corporation of woods hole oceanographic institution. dr. albright graduated from harvard medical school after attending radcliffe college, and has received eight honorary degrees. arthur l. goldstein director since 1995 retired chairman and chief executive officer of ionics, incorporated, an international company involved in the purification and treatment of water. he was chief executive officer of ionics, incorporated from 1971 to 2003 and was chairman from 1991 to 2004. mr. goldstein, age 72, is a director of cabot corporation. he is a member of the national academy of engineering. he is a trustee of the california institute of technology, the massachusetts general physicians' organization, inc., a trustee and treasurer of partners healthcare system, where he serves as chairman of its finance committee and a member of the mit energy initiative external advisory board. mr. goldstein received a b.s. degree in chemical engineering from rensselaer polytechnic institute, an m.s. in chemical engineering from the university of delaware, and an m.b.a. from harvard business school. information concerning our executive officers appears under the caption "executive officers of the registrant" in item 4a of this form 10-k. information concerning our examining and audit committee will appear in our proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed pursuant to regulation 14a on or before april 30, 2008, under the caption "corporate governance at state street committees of the board of directors." such information is incorporated herein by reference. information concerning compliance with section 16(a) of the securities exchange act will appear in our proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed pursuant to regulation 14a on or before april 30, 2008, under the caption "section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance." such information is incorporated herein by reference. 135 our board has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and corporate controller. the code of ethics has been posted on our internet website at www.statestreet.com . we intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under item 5.05 of form 8-k regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the code of ethics, and that relates to a substantive amendment or material departure from a provision of the code of ethics, by posting such information on our internet website at www.statestreet.com . we also intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements of the nyse listing standards regarding waivers of the standard of conduct for directors, and waivers for executive officers of the standard of conduct at state street, by posting such information on our internet website at www.statestreet.com . item 11. executive compensation information in response to this item will appear in our proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed pursuant to regulation 14a on or before april 30, 2008, under the caption "executive compensation." such information is incorporated herein by reference. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management will appear in our proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed pursuant to regulation 14a on or before april 30, 2008, under the caption "beneficial ownership of shares." such information is incorporated herein by reference. related stockholder matters the following table discloses the number of outstanding options, warrants and rights granted by state street to participants in equity compensation plans, as well as the number of securities remaining available for future issuance under these plans, as of december 31, 2007. the table provides this information separately for equity compensation plans that have and have not been approved by shareholders. (shares in thousands) (a) number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (b) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (c) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) plan category: equity compensation plans approved by shareholders 25,168 $ 53.92 14,936 equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders 113 47.90 total 25,281 53.89 14,936 one compensation plan under which equity securities of state street are authorized for issuance has been adopted without the approval of shareholders. in 2001, the board adopted the state street corporation savings-related stock plan, or "saye plan," for employees in the united kingdom. under the saye plan, employee-participants could commit to save a specified amount from after-tax pay for a fixed period (either three or five years). savings are deducted automatically. at the end of the period chosen, a tax-free bonus is added by state street to the savings amount (the level of the bonus depends on the length of the fixed period of 136 savings), and participants have the option to receive the savings and bonus amount in cash, or to use the amount to purchase common stock from state street at an exercise price equal to the market price of the stock as of the date of joining the saye plan less a discount fixed by state street at the date of joining. for participants joining the saye plan in 2001, the discount was 15%. there was no discount for participants joining in 2002. options granted under the saye plan are non-transferable. if a participant withdraws from participation before the end of the fixed period, the options to purchase stock are forfeited. if a participant terminates during the period due to retirement, disability, redundancy or sale of the employer from state street's group, the options may be exercised within six months of the occurrence, or one year if by reason of death. under the saye plan, an aggregate of 170,000 shares of common stock was authorized for issuance. the saye plan has been discontinued and no new participations under the saye plan are permitted. at december 31, 2007, a total of 1,777 shares of common stock are eligible to be purchased under outstanding options. in addition, individual directors who are not our employees have received annual awards of deferred stock for a number of shares based on the amount of their annual retainer, payable after the director leaves the board or attains a specific age. the number of deferred shares includes, in the case of certain directors, additional deferred share amounts in respect of an accrual under a terminated retirement plan, and for all directors is increased to reflect dividends paid on the common stock. also, directors who are not our employees may receive their annual retainer payable at their option either in shares of our common stock or cash, and may further elect to defer either 50% or 100% until after termination of their services as a director. the number of deferred shares is increased to reflect dividends paid on the common stock. deferred stock awards totaling 229,149 shares of common stock were outstanding at december 31, 2007; awards made through june 30, 2003 have not been approved by shareholders. awards of deferred stock made or non-deferred retainer shares paid to individual directors after june 30, 2003 have been or will be made under our 1997 or 2006 equity incentive plan, approved by shareholders. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence information concerning certain relationships and related transactions and director independence will appear in our proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed pursuant to regulation 14a on or before april 30, 2008, under the captions "related person transactions" and "corporate governance at state street." such information is incorporated herein by reference. item 14. principal accounting fees and services information concerning principal accounting fees and services will appear in our proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed pursuant to regulation 14a on or before april 30, 2008, under the caption "relationship with independent registered public accounting firm." such information is incorporated herein by reference. 137 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules (a)(1) financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of state street are included in item 8 hereof: report of independent registered public accounting firm consolidated statement of income years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 consolidated statement of condition as of december 31, 2007 and 2006 consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 consolidated statement of cash flows years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 notes to consolidated financial statements (a)(2) financial statement schedules certain schedules to the consolidated financial statements have been omitted if they were not required by article 9 of regulation s-x or if, under the related instructions, they were inapplicable, or the information was contained elsewhere herein. (a)(3) exhibits a list of the exhibits filed or incorporated herein by reference is as follows: 2.1 agreement and plan of merger dated as of february 4, 2007 by and between state street corporation and investors financial services corp. (the schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to item 601(b)(2) of regulation s-k) (filed as exhibit 2.1 to state street's current report on form 8-k dated february 4, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference) 3.1 restated articles of organization, as amended 3.2 amended and restated by-laws dated october 19, 2006 (filed as exhibit 3.2 to state street's current report on form 8-k dated october 19, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference) 4.1 the description of state street's common stock is included in state street's registration statement on form 8-a, as filed on january 18, 1995 and march 7, 1995 (filed on january 18, 1995 and march 7, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference) (note: none of the instruments defining the rights of holders of state street's outstanding long-term debt are in respect of indebtedness in excess of 10% of the total assets of state street and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. state street hereby agrees to furnish to the securities and exchange commission upon request a copy of any other instrument with respect to long-term debt of state street and its subsidiaries.) 10.1 state street's management supplemental retirement plan, amended and restated effective as of january 1, 2008 (formerly, "state street corporation supplemental executive retirement plan") (filed as exhibit 10.1 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2007 filed with the commission on november 2, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.2 state street's amended and restated supplemental defined benefit pension plan for senior executive officers (filed as exhibit 10.1 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference) 138 10.3 state street global advisors incentive plan for 1996 (filed as exhibit 10.19 to state street's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 1995 filed with the commission on march 27, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.4 forms of employment agreement with officers (levels 1, 2 and 3) approved by the board of directors on september 1995 (filed as exhibit 10.20 to state street's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 1995 filed with the commission on march 27, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.5 state street global advisors equity compensation plan (filed as exhibit 10 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 1996 filed with the commission on november 14, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.6 state street's executive compensation trust agreement dated december 6, 1996 (rabbi trust) (filed as exhibit 10.18 to state street's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 1996 filed with the commission on march 26, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.7 state street's 1997 equity incentive plan, as amended, and forms of awards and agreements thereunder (filed as exhibit 10.22 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended june 30, 1997 filed with the commission on august 14, 1997; exhibit 10.17 to state street's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 1997 filed with the commission on march 26, 1998; exhibit 10.1 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 2000 filed with the commission on may 15, 2000; exhibit 10.2 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended june 30, 2000 filed with the commission on august 11, 2000; exhibit 12d to state street's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2001 filed with the commission on february 22, 2002; exhibit 10.1 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2004 filed with the commission on november 5, 2004; exhibit 10.2 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended june 30, 2006 filed with the commission on august 4, 2006; exhibit 10.2 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2004 filed with the commission on november 5, 2004; exhibit 10.3 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2004 filed with the commission on november 5, 2004; exhibit 10.4 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2004 filed with the commission on november 5, 2004; exhibit 10.5 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2004 filed with the commission on november 5, 2004; exhibit 10.6 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2004 filed with the commission on november 5, 2004; exhibit 10.7 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2004 filed with the commission on november 5, 2004; exhibit 10.12l to state street's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2004 filed with the commission on february 18, 2005; and exhibit 10.1 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended june 30, 2006 filed with the commission on august 4, 2006, which exhibits are incorporated herein by reference) 10.8 state street's 2006 equity incentive plan and forms of award agreements thereunder 139 10.9 state street's 2006 senior executive annual incentive plan (filed as appendix c to state street's definitive proxy statement filed with the commission on march 13, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.10 state street's management supplemental savings plan, amended and restated effective as of january 1, 2008 (formerly, "state street corporation 401(k) restoration and voluntary deferral plan") (filed as exhibit 10.2 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2007 filed with the commission on november 2, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.11 state street's savings-related stock plan for united kingdom employees (filed as exhibit 99.1 to state street's registration statement on form s-8 filed on september 23, 2002, commission file no. 333-100001, and incorporated herein by reference) 10.12 amended and restated deferred compensation plan for directors of state street corporation (filed as exhibit 10.1 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 1999 filed with the commission on may 5, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.13 amended and restated deferred compensation plan for directors of state street bank and trust company (filed as exhibit 10.3 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended june 30, 2006 filed with the commission on august 4, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.14 description of compensation arrangements for non-employee directors 10.15 memorandum of agreement of employment of edward j. resch, accepted october 16, 2002 (filed as exhibit 10.23 to state street's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2002 filed with the commission on february 21, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.16 separation agreement between state street corporation and william w. hunt, dated as of january 2, 2008 10.17a form of indemnification agreement between state street corporation and each of its directors (filed as exhibit 10.1 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 2007 filed with the commission on may 4, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.17b form of indemnification agreement between state street corporation and each of its executive officers (filed as exhibit 10.2 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 2007 filed with the commission on may 4, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.17c form of indemnification agreement between state street bank and trust company and each of its directors (filed as exhibit 10.3 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 2007 filed with the commission on may 4, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference) 10.17d form of indemnification agreement between state street bank and trust company and each of its executive officers (filed as exhibit 10.4 to state street's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 31, 2007 filed with the commission on may 4, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference) 11.1 computation of earnings per share (information appears in note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8) 12.1 statement of ratios of earnings to fixed charges 21.1 subsidiaries of state street corporation 140 23.1 consent of independent registered public accounting firm 31.1 rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) certification of chairman and chief executive officer 31.2 rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) certification of chief financial officer 32 section 1350 certifications denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 141 signatures pursuant to the requirement of section 13 or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, on february 14, 2008, thereunto duly authorized. state street corporation by /s/ edward j. resch edward j. resch, executive vice president and chief financial officer by /s/ james j. malerba james j. malerba, senior vice president and corporate controller pursuant to the requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, this report has been signed below on february 14, 2008 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated. officers: /s/ ronald e. logue ronald e. logue, chairman and chief executive officer; director /s/ edward j. resch edward j. resch, executive vice president and chief financial officer /s/ james j. malerba james j. malerba, senior vice president and corporate controller directors: /s/ tenley e. albright tenley e. albright, m.d. /s/ kennett f. burnes kennett f. burnes /s/ peter coym peter coym /s/ nader f. darehshori nader f. darehshori /s/ amelia c. fawcett amelia c. fawcett /s/ arthur l. goldstein arthur l. goldstein /s/ david p. gruber david p. gruber /s/ linda a. hill linda a. hill 142 /s/ charles r. lamantia charles r. lamantia /s/ ronald e. logue ronald e. logue /s/ maureen j. miskovic maureen j. miskovic /s/ richard p. sergel richard p. sergel /s/ ronald l. skates ronald l. skates /s/ gregory l. summe gregory l. summe /s/ diana chapman walsh diana chapman walsh /s/ robert e. weissman robert e. weissman 143 exhibit index (filed herewith) 3.1 restated articles of organization, as amended 10.8 state street's 2006 equity incentive plan and forms of award agreements thereunder 10.14 description of compensation arrangements for non-employee directors 10.16 separation agreement between state street and william w. hunt, dated as of january 2, 2008 11.1 computation of earnings per share (information appears in note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under part ii, item 8) 12.1 statement of ratios of earnings to fixed charges 21.1 subsidiaries of state street corporation 23.1 consent of independent registered public accounting firm 31.1 rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) certification of chairman and chief executive officer 31.2 rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) certification of chief financial officer 32 section 1350 certifications 144 quicklinks state street corporation table of contents item 1. business item 1a. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth in the "market risk" section of "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," included in this form 10-k under item 7, is incorporated by reference herein. 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors this form 10-k contains statements (including, without limitation, statements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in this form 10-k under item 7) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, state street and its management may make other written or oral communications from time to time that contain forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements, including statements as to industry trends, future expectations of state street and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts, are based on certain assumptions by management, and are often identified by such forward-looking terminology as expect, look, believe, anticipate, estimate, seek, may, will, trend, target and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms. forward- 6 looking statements may include statements about state street confidence in its strategies and its expectations about revenue and market growth, acquisitions and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities, and earnings. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, and are based on management expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made. these expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, and factors specific to the parent company and to the bank. factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based include, but are not limited to: economic conditions and monetary and other governmental actions designed to address those conditions; the performance and volatility of securities, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; the level and volatility of interest rates, particularly in the u.s. and europe; our ability to attract non-interest bearing deposits and other low-cost funds; the enactment of legislation, including tax legislation, and changes in regulation and enforcement that impact state street and its customers; the competitive environment in which we operate, including the willingness of our competitors to reduce fees or add to their products and services to seek to attract our customers, as well as our ability to cross-sell services to our customers and to maintain service levels, technology and product offerings that are sufficient to attract new customers and retain current customers; our ability to continue to grow revenue, control expenses and attract the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements; our ability to control systemic and operating risks; trends in the globalization of investment activity and the growth on a worldwide basis in financial assets; trends in governmental and corporate pension plans and savings rates; changes in accounting standards and practices, including changes in the interpretation of existing standards, that impact our consolidated financial statements; and changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that impact the amount of taxes due. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis upon which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in this form 10-k and in our other sec filings, including our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k, which are accessible on the sec website at www.sec.gov or on our website at www.statestreet.com. in addition to factors discussed above and elsewhere in this form 10-k or previously disclosed in our other sec filings, the factors discussed below could cause actual future results to differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results. state street undertakes no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k to reflect events after the date it is filed with the sec. these factors are not intended to be a complete summary of 7 all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. though we strive to monitor and mitigate risk, we cannot anticipate all potential economic, operational and financial developments that may adversely impact our operations and our financial results. business conditions/economic risk our businesses are affected by global economic conditions, political uncertainties and volatility and other developments in the financial markets. factors such as interest rates and commodities prices, regional and international rates of economic growth, inflation, political instability, the liquidity and volatility of equity, credit, currency, derivative and other financial markets, and investor confidence can significantly affect the financial markets in which we and our customers are engaged. such factors have affected, and may further unfavorably affect, both regional and worldwide economic growth, creating adverse effects on many companies, including us, in ways that are not predictable. a significant market downturn may lead to a decline in the value of assets under management and custody, which would reduce our asset-based fee revenue and the value of securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and may adversely impact transaction revenue and the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers. in addition, lower market volatility, even in a generally rising market environment, may reduce trading volumes of our customers, and our ability to achieve attractive spreads, which could lead to lower trading revenues. our revenues, particularly our trading revenues, may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border investments made by our customers. the level of cross-border activity can be influenced by a number of factors, including geopolitical instabilities and customer mix. general market downturns would also likely lead to a decline in the volume of transactions we execute on behalf of our customers, decreasing our fee and revenue opportunities and reducing the level of assets under management and custody. in addition, revenues during a calendar year, driven by the products and services we provide, can fluctuate commensurate with normal course business activity of our customers, typically resulting in stronger revenues in the second and fourth quarters and relatively weaker revenues in the first and third quarters. in recent years, investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing and non-u.s. asset servicing have been areas of rapid growth in our business. if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see a slowing in the growth rate of our revenue. strategic/competition risk we expect the markets in which we operate to remain both highly competitive and global across all facets of our business, resulting in increases in both regional and global competitive risks. we have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker/dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. many of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, customer pricing reviews and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, development of strategic alliances and divestitures of portions of our business, in addition to fostering organic growth opportunities, are an active part of our overall business strategy to remain competitive. we may not be able to effectively assimilate 8 services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings, alliances may not be successful, and related revenue growth or cost savings may not be achieved. in addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the divestiture of identified businesses on satisfactory terms, if at all, which would reduce anticipated benefits to earnings. ongoing consolidation within the financial services industry could provide opportunities and pose challenges in the markets we serve. acquisitions present risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. in january 2007, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire currenex, inc., an independently owned electronic foreign exchange trading platform. in addition, in february 2007, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire investors financial. our financial results for 2007 and for the next few years may be significantly impacted by our ability to achieve the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate as a result of the acquisition of investors financial, as well as our ability to retain its customer base and to successfully cross-sell our products and services to its customers. intellectual property of an acquired business such as currenex may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business; however, these types of acquisitions entail the risk that the acquired business does not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent upon licenses from third parties, or that the acquired business infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses such as investors financial normally entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in customer dissatisfaction and defection. customers of businesses that we acquire, including, in the case of investors financial, its largest customer, are competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these customers or a significant reduction in revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, would adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from the acquisition. in connection with most acquisitions, before the acquisition can be completed, we must obtain various regulatory approvals or consents, which approvals may include the federal reserve board, the massachusetts commissioner of banking and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms. although we would not enter into a transaction anticipating materially adverse regulatory conditions, such conditions may be imposed, or we may experience regulatory delays that limit the benefits of the transaction. with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the two businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. where we acquire a business and combine it with our operations, we are also exposed to risks of unknown or contingent liabilities as to which we may have no recourse against the seller. while we normally seek to mitigate that risk through pre-acquisition due diligence, increasingly acquisition transactions are competitive auctions in which we have limited time and access to information to evaluate the risks inherent in the business being acquired, and no or limited recourse against the seller if undisclosed liabilities are discovered after we enter into a definitive agreement. our financial results may be adversely affected by the accounting treatment for an acquisition. we may not achieve the benefits we sought in an acquisition, or, if achieved, those benefits may come later than we anticipated. failure to achieve anticipated benefits from an acquisition, such as our acquisitions of investors financial and currenex, could result in increased costs and lower revenues than expected of the combined company. 9 we actively strive to achieve significant cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations, while continuing to maintain service quality, control and effective management of risks within these business operations. this transition to a true shared services operational model focuses on certain core service offerings, including middle- and back-office reconciliations, securities processing and transfer agency activities. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputation risk. reputation risk is inherent in our current operating model; shifting business processes merely accentuates these risks through the transition process, until such time as technology, training and infrastructure changes are in place to mitigate the risk. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be impacted by regulatory and customer acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that partially offset the financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. the risks we face include rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our customers, and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices. we proactively cross-sell multiple products and services to our customers, which can exacerbate the negative financial effects associated with the risk of loss of any one customer. developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through processing, have required continued internal procedural enhancements and further technology investment. our growth strategy depends upon both attracting new customers and cross-selling additional products and services to our existing customer base. to the extent that we are not able to achieve these goals, we may not be able to achieve our financial goals. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented to offer such products while also managing associated risks. the introduction of new products and services can also entail significant time and resources. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our customers. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, as well as our results of operations and financial condition. credit risk our focus on large institutional investors and their businesses requires that we assume credit and counterparty risk, both on- and off-balance sheet, in a variety of forms. we may experience significant intra- and inter-day credit exposure through settlement-related extensions of credit. from time to time, we may assume concentrated credit risk at the individual counterparty, industry and/or country level, thereby potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. the credit quality of our on- and off-balance sheet exposures may be affected by many factors, such as economic and business conditions or deterioration in the financial condition of an individual counterparty or group of counterparties. if there is a significant economic downturn in either a country or a region, or we experience the failure of a significant individual counterparty, we could incur financial losses that could adversely affect our earnings. 10 financial markets risk as asset values in worldwide financial markets increase or decrease, our opportunities to invest in and service financial assets change. given that a portion of our fees is based on the value of assets under custody and management, fluctuations in the valuation of worldwide securities markets will affect revenue. many of the costs of providing our services are relatively fixed; therefore, a decline in revenue could have a disproportionate effect on our earnings. in addition, if investment performance in our asset management business fails to meet either benchmarks or the performance of our competitors, we could experience a decline in assets under management and a reduction in the fees we earn, irrespective of economic or market conditions. we have increased the portion of our management fee revenue that is generated from enhanced index and actively managed products, with respect to which we receive higher fees compared to passive products. we may not be able to continue to increase this segment of our business at the same rate that we have achieved in the past few years. in addition, with respect to certain of these products, we have entered into performance fee arrangements, where the management fee revenue we earn is based on the performance of managed funds against specified benchmarks. the reliance on performance fees increases the potential volatility of our management fee revenue. the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. in general, we benefit from currency volatility, although it can increase risk, and foreign exchange revenue, all other things being equal, is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. in addition, as our business grows globally, our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our levels of revenue, expense and earnings, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations. our other financial markets trading businesses, as well as our asset and liability management activities, are also subject to market risks. adverse movements in levels and volatilities of financial markets could cause losses that may affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. liquidity risk we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets with us in particular, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. general market disruptions, natural disasters or operational problems may affect either third parties or us, and can also have an adverse affect on our liquidity. interest rate risk state street financial performance could be unfavorably affected by changes in interest rates as they impact our asset and liability management process. the levels of global market interest rates, the shape of these yield curves (changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates), the direction and speed of interest rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities, affect our net interest revenue. our ability to anticipate these changes and/or to hedge the related exposures on and off our balance sheet can significantly influence the success of our asset and liability management process and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. the impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative durations of assets and liabilities in accordance with their relevant currencies. in general, sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. 11 operational risk operational risk is inherent in all of state street activities. our customers have a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. we have established policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with these regulatory and operational risk requirements. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or monitoring mechanisms, or other systems or controls, and from external events, which could materially affect our future results of operations. we may also be subject to disruptions from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including functions such as information processing and financial market settlement. in addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be negatively affected. we use various strategies and processes to monitor and mitigate operational and other risks. these risk management measures entail many assumptions regarding events that are not possible to predict. as a result, our risk management framework may not always be successful. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, their years of industry experience, in some cases, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. in some of our businesses, we have experienced significant employee turnover, which increases costs, requires additional training and increases the potential for operational risks. we enter into long-term fixed price contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing services to customers, services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. these long-term contracts require considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services and our ability to control our costs and maintain the relationship with the customer for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. in addition, our failure to meet specified service levels may adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the customer. our businesses depend on an information technology infrastructure to record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets. any interruptions, delays and/or breakdowns of this infrastructure can result in significant costs. as a result, we continue to invest significantly in this infrastructure. regulatory/legal/accounting/tax risk most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation, and many of the customers to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulatory and supervisory oversight, both in the u.s. and overseas in connection with our global operations. our businesses are subject to stringent regulation and examination by u.s. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies, including the federal reserve, the sec and the massachusetts commissioner of banking, and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-u.s. governmental and regulatory agencies and self- 12 regulatory organizations. the regulations affect, among other things, the scope of our activities and customer services, our capital structure and our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy and the manner in which we market our services. evolving regulations, such as the new basel ii capital framework and anti-money laundering regulations, can require significant effort on our part to ensure compliance. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which can adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our financial results. similarly, many of our customers are subject to significant regulatory requirements, and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. if we cause a customer to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers or to maintain access to capital markets, or could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and lawsuits. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement has increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. from time to time, our customers may make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, such claims may result in financial liability to us and/or adversely affect the market perception of state street and its products and services, and could impact customer demand for our products and services. we record balance sheet reserves for such known and unknown loss contingencies, including litigation and operational losses; however, we cannot always estimate the ultimate outcome, and as a result the adequacy of these reserves to cover any settlements or judgments into which state street ultimately enters or to which we are subject. new accounting requirements, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting requirements, by the financial accounting standards board, the sec, and bank regulators can potentially affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations, as accounting rules in the u.s. and other jurisdictions consistently evolve to reflect the increasing complexities of business. these changes are very difficult to predict, and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of prior period financial statements. our businesses are subject to changes in tax legislation, and the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. these legislative actions may impact our business directly or indirectly through their impact on the financial markets. in the normal course of business, we are subject to reviews by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. these reviews may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxes due and the allocation of taxable income among tax jurisdictions. while such changes may or may not have an economic impact on our business, these changes could affect the attainment of our current financial goals. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth in the market risk section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in this form 10-k under item 7, is incorporated by reference herein.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information concerning quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation under the caption market risk. &gt;quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information concerning quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears in part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation under the caption market risk.risk factors this form 10-k contains statements (including, without limitation, statements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in this form 10-k under item 7), that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of u.s. federal securities laws. in addition, state street may make other written or oral communications from time to time that contain forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements, including statements as to industry trends, future expectations of state street and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts, are based on certain assumptions by management, and are often identified by such forward-looking terminology as expect, look, believe, anticipate, may, will, trend and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms. forward-looking statements may include statements about state street confidence and strategies and its expectations about revenue and market growth, acquisitions and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities, and earnings. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, and speak only as of the date they are made. in addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this form 10-k or previously disclosed in our sec filings, including our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k (accessible on the sec website at www.sec.gov or on our website at www.statestreet.com ), the factors discussed below, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical performance. state street undertakes no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k to reflect events after the date of this form 10-k. state street corporation 5 if market interest rates rise, our securities finance and net interest revenues can be negatively affected in the short term. the levels of global market interest rates, the shape of the yield curve, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities affect our securities finance and net interest revenue. in the short term, our net interest revenue and securities finance revenue benefit from falling interest rates and are negatively affected by rising interest rates because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice sooner than our interest-earning assets. the rate of adjustment to higher or lower rates will depend on the relative duration of assets and liabilities. in general, sustained lower interest rates, a flat yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads have a constraining effect on net interest revenue and securities finance revenue growth. market interest rates, which affect the economic value of our demand deposits, also impact the value of certain derivative financial instruments whose changes in value are reflected in trading services and processing fees and other revenue in our consolidated statement of income. if values in worldwide securities markets decline, our revenue and earnings can be adversely affected. as asset values in worldwide financial markets increase or decrease, our opportunities to invest and service financial assets change. because a portion of our fees is based on the value of assets under custody and management, fluctuations in the valuation of worldwide securities markets will affect revenue. we estimate that a 10% increase or decrease in worldwide equity values would result in a corresponding change in our total revenue of approximately 2%. if fixed income security values worldwide were to increase or decrease by 10%, we would anticipate a corresponding change of approximately 1% in our total revenue. because many of the costs of providing our services are relatively fixed, a decline in revenue could have a disproportionate effect on our earnings. if foreign exchange rate volatility decreases, our revenue can be adversely affected. the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. in general, we benefit from currency volatility, and foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. in addition, as our business grows globally, our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our level of revenue, expense and net income and the value of our investments in our non-u.s. operations. if we do not maintain our capital requirements and our status as a well-capitalized financial holding company, there could be an adverse effect on the manner in which we do business and on the confidence of our customers in us. under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, we and our principal banking subsidiary, state street bank, must meet guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. failure to meet minimum capital requirements could have a material effect on our financial condition and could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, as well as certain restrictions on our business. failure to maintain the status of well capitalized under the regulatory framework could affect our status as a financial holding company and eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals, and deterioration in the confidence that our customers have in us, which can lead to a decline in the demand for our products and affect the prices that we are able to charge for our services. in addition to being well-capitalized, state street and state street bank are subject to guidelines that involve qualitative judgments by regulators about the entities status as well-managed and the entities compliance with community reinvestment act obligations. if there is a decline in individual savings rates, our business can be adversely affected. we generally benefit when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans. changes in savings rates or investment styles may affect revenue. if there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to fewer 6 state street corporation investments in mutual funds, other collective investment funds, and defined contribution plans, our revenue may be adversely affected. while increased cross-border investing by our customers worldwide benefits our revenue, increased worldwide economic and political instability can adversely affect our business. our revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border investments made by our customers. the terrorist attacks that took place in the united states on september 11, 2001, and subsequent military action and terrorist activities, have caused economic and political uncertainties. these activities and the national and global efforts to combat terrorism, and other military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth. such events could result in decreased cross-border investment activities and may have other adverse effects on many companies, including ours, in ways that are not predictable. if there is a decline in the pace at which customers outsource their middle office or investment management operations, our business can be adversely affected. in recent years, investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing have been areas of rapid growth in our business. if the demand for these types of services declines, we could see a slowing in the growth rate of our revenue. if we do not perform effectively under our outsourcing contracts, we may not generate the operating margins that we expect, or we may lose customers before we earn back our investment in the contracts. we enter into long-term contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing services to customers. services that we provide include trade order management, trade support and fail management, reconciliations, cash reporting and management, custodian communications for settlements, accounting systems, collateral management and information technology development. these contracts often extend eight to ten years and require considerable up-front investments by us, including technology and conversion costs. performance risk exists in each contract, since these contracts are dependent upon the successful conversion and implementation of the activities onto our own operating platforms. our operating margins, and as a result our profitability, are largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services, our ability to control our costs and our ability to maintain the relationship with the customer for an adequate period of time to recover the up-front investment. the long-term nature of these contracts creates a risk that our pricing for the products and services we provide might not be adequate to generate expected operating margins. if we do not successfully integrate businesses that we acquire, or successfully complete divestitures, we may not realize the expected benefits of the transaction. acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, development of strategic alliances and divestitures of portions of our business are an active part of our overall business strategy. we have completed several acquisitions, alliances and divestitures in recent years. however, there can be no assurance that services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies will be effectively assimilated into our business or service offerings, that alliances will be successful, or that related expectations concerning future revenue growth or cost savings will be achieved. in addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the conversion of divested businesses to the buyer on satisfactory terms, if at all, and divestitures may result in a reduction of total revenue and net income. if we are subject to changes in tax legislation, the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide or changes in accounting principles, we may be required to report a material charge to our results of operations. in the normal course of business, we are subject to challenges from u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. these challenges may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. in recent years, the u.s. internal revenue service, or irs, has proposed to disallow tax deductions related to cross-border leasing state street corporation 7 transactions, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. additionally, the financial accounting standards board has been considering making changes to the accounting guidance related to uncertain tax positions and leveraged leases. while such changes may not have an economic impact on our business, these changes could affect the attainment of our current financial goals. if the pace of pension reform slows, or if pension reform does not occur, our revenue and earnings can be adversely affected. we expect our business to benefit from worldwide pension reform that creates additional pools of assets that use custody and related services, and investment management services. the pace of pension reform and resulting programs, including public and private pension schemes, may affect the pace of our revenue growth. if we do not maintain compliance with governmental regulation, we can be subject to fines, penalties or restrictions of business in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which can adversely impact our business. our businesses are subject to stringent regulation and examination by u.s. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-u.s. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. in addition, our customers have a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. we have established policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with these regulatory and operational risk requirements. however, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs in our worldwide compliance efforts. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or monitoring mechanisms, or other systems or controls, and from external events, which could have a material impact on our future results of operations. also, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to capital markets, or could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and lawsuits. if, for regulatory reasons, we are limited in our ability to invest additional capital in subsidiaries outside the united states, we may not be able to stay competitive in those markets, and our business could suffer. federal laws and related regulations limit the amount that banks, including state street bank, may invest in non-u.s. subsidiaries. this limitation could affect the pace of future international expansion by state street bank through this type of subsidiary. investigations into the financial services industry can adversely affect our business. we are broadly involved with the global securities industry including, in particular, the mutual fund industry. financial reporting irregularities involving large and well-known companies, and governmental and regulatory investigations of securities and mutual fund industry practices and behavior, may have adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. governmental and regulatory agencies have sought information from us in connection with investigations relating to that industry that has resulted in additional expenses and staffing resources in providing responses. if the business continuity and disaster recovery plans that we have in place are not adequate to continue our operations in the event of a disaster, the business disruption can adversely impact our operations. external events, including terrorist or military actions, or an outbreak of disease, such as asian influenza, or bird flu, and resulting political and social turmoil could cause unforeseen damage to our physical facilities, or could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. additionally, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 state street corporation if we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology, or do not respond to rapid technological changes in our industry, or if growth in the use of technology in business is not as rapid as in the past, our business can be adversely affected. technological change often creates opportunities for product differentiation and reduced costs, as well as the possibility of increased expenses. developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will result in changes to existing procedures. alternative delivery systems have emerged, including the widespread use of the internet. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies. the risks inherent in this process include rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from customers, and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices. a further risk is the introduction by competitors of services that could replace or provide lower-cost alternatives to our services. if we are unsuccessful in protecting our proprietary rights, or if we are found to have violated the proprietary rights of others, we can experience a decline in revenue or an increase in expenses. we use trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and other proprietary rights procedures to protect our technology. despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps taken by us to prevent unauthorized use of proprietary rights are sufficient to prevent misappropriation of technology, particularly outside the united states where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the u.s. in addition, no assurance can be given that the courts will adequately enforce contractual agreements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology. if any of our proprietary information were misappropriated by, or otherwise disclosed to, our competitors, our competitive position could be adversely affected. in the event a third party asserts a claim of infringement of its proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend against such claims, develop a non-infringing program or process, or obtain a license to the infringed process. if our access to the capital markets is limited, our capital resources and liquidity could be adversely affected. we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets in general or with us in particular, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. if there is a significant economic downturn in either a country or a region, or the failure of a significant individual counterparty, our credit and counterparty risk profile could be adversely affected and result in loss. our focus on large institutional investors and their businesses requires that we assume credit and counterparty risk, both on- and off-balance sheet, in a variety of forms. we provide, on a limited basis, traditional loan products to customers, based upon credit quality and other factors. we also provide customers with off-balance sheet liquidity and credit enhancement facilities in the form of letters of credit, lines of credit and liquidity asset purchase agreements, subject to credit analysis and an approval and review process. we invest in financial instruments, including investment securities and derivative instruments, which are also subject to risk management processes. the credit quality of our on- and off-balance sheet exposures may be affected by many factors, such as economic and business conditions or deterioration in the financial condition of an individual counterparty or group of counterparties. in the event of poor economic conditions in a particular country or region, or the failure of a significant counterparty or group of counterparties, there is a greater likelihood that more of our customers or counterparties could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us, or that the state street corporation 9 special purpose entities we administer could experience deterioration in asset performance. this could result in higher levels of credit-related losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth in the market risk section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included under item 7 of this form 10-k, is incorporated by reference herein. 58 state street corporationrisk factors this form 10-k contains statements (including statements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in this form 10-k under item 7) that are considered forward-looking statements, including statements about industry trends, management future expectations and 5 table of contents other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts, are based on assumptions by management, and are often identified by such forward-looking terminology as expect, look, believe, anticipate, estimate, seek, may, will, trend, target and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms. forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements about state street confidence in its strategies and its expectations about its financial performance, market growth, acquisitions and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities and earnings. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of future results. management expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to state street and its subsidiaries, including state street bank. factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based include, but are not limited to: global financial market disruptions and the current worldwide economic recession, and monetary and other governmental actions designed to address such disruptions and recession in the u.s. and internationally; the financial strength of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business and with which we have investment or financial exposure; the liquidity of the u.s. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities, and the liquidity requirements of our customers; the credit quality and credit agency ratings of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss; the maintenance of credit agency ratings for our debt obligations as well as the level of credibility of credit agency ratings; the possibility that changes to accounting rules or in market conditions or asset performance (including the financial condition of any guarantor of any assets) may require any off-balance sheet activities, including the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits we administer, to be consolidated into our financial statements, requiring the recognition of associated losses; the possibility of our customers incurring substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent, and the possibility of further general reductions in the valuation of assets; our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding; potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to the effects of consolidation, extensive and changing government regulation and perceptions of state street as a suitable service provider or counterparty; the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; our ability to measure the fair value of securities in our investment securities portfolio and in the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits we administer; the results of litigation and similar disputes and, in particular, the effect of current or potential litigation concerning ssga active fixed-income strategies, and the enactment of legislation and changes in regulation and enforcement that impact us and our customers, as well as the effects of legal and regulatory proceedings; adverse publicity or other reputational harm; our ability to pursue acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestures, finance future business acquisitions and obtain regulatory approvals and consents for acquisitions; 6 table of contents the performance and demand for the products and services we offer, including the level and timing of withdrawals from our collective investment products; our ability to continue to grow revenue, attract highly skilled people, control expenses and attract the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements; our ability to control operating risks, information technology systems risks and outsourcing risks, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will fail or be circumvented; the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk, and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to obtain quality and timely services from third parties with which we contract; changes in accounting standards and practices, including changes in the interpretation of existing standards, that impact our consolidated financial statements; and changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that impact the amount of taxes due. therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this form 10-k or disclosed in our other sec filings. forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date this form 10-k is filed with the sec. state street undertakes no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k to reflect events after the date it is filed with the sec. the factors discussed above are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. we cannot anticipate all potential economic, operational and financial developments that may adversely impact our operations and our financial results. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis upon which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our sec filings, including our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934, in particular our reports on form 10-k, form 10-q and form 8-k, or registration statements filed under the securities act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the sec website at www.sec.gov or on our website at www.statestreet.com . the following is a discussion of risk factors applicable to state street. global financial market disruptions during 2007 and 2008 have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our business, and continued or additional disruptions in 2009 could have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. since mid-2007, global credit and other financial markets have suffered substantial volatility, illiquidity and disruption. in the second half of 2008, these factors resulted in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or significant government assistance to, a number of major domestic and international financial institutions, some of which were significant counterparties with us. these events, and the potential for increased and continuing disruptions, have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial markets and in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and pricing issues within the fixed-income markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our business and have had an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. the continuation of current disruptions or the occurrence of additional disruptions in the global markets could have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. 7 table of contents the current worldwide economic recession is likely to adversely affect our business and our results of operations. our business is affected by global economic conditions, including regional and international rates of economic growth and the impact that such economic conditions have on the financial markets. recent downturns in the u.s. and global economy have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, decreased market valuations and liquidity, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction of business activity generally. the resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, our financial condition and our results of operations, as well as the business of our customers. a worsening of economic conditions in the u.s. or globally would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult conditions on us and on the financial services industry in general. the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, many of whom are financial institutions, could expose us to loss. the financial markets are characterized by extensive interconnections among financial institutions, including banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds and insurance companies. as a result of these interconnections, we and many of our customers have concentrated counterparty exposure to other financial institutions. this concentration presents significant risks to us and to our customers because the failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties (or in some cases of our customers counterparties) has the potential to expose us to risk of loss. the current instability of the financial markets has resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, and as a result we are exposed to increased counterparty risks, both as principal and in our capacity as agent for our customers. changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions can occur rapidly, is often based upon a variety of factors and is difficult to predict. in addition, as u.s. and non-u.s. governments have addressed the financial crisis in an evolving manner, the criteria for and manner of governmental support of financial institutions and other economically important sectors remain uncertain. if a significant individual counterparty defaults on an obligation to us, we could incur financial losses that materially adversely affect our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. although our entire business is subject to these interconnections, several of our lines of business are particularly sensitive to them, including our treasury operations, currency and other trading, securities lending and investment management. given the limited number of strong counterparties in the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our customers counterparty credit risk. the current consolidation of financial service firms that began in 2008, and which we believe is likely to continue in 2009, and the failures of other financial institutions have increased the concentration of our counterparty risk. in the normal course of business we assume significant credit and counterparty risk, and even when we hold collateral against this risk, we may incur a loss in the event of a default. our focus on large institutional investors and their businesses requires that we assume secured and unsecured credit and counterparty risk, both on-and off-balance sheet, in a variety of forms. we may experience significant intra- and inter-day credit exposure through settlement-related or redemption-related extensions of credit. the degree of the demand for such overdraft credit tends to increase during periods of market turbulence. for example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may engage in significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was not anticipated by the fund manager. our relationship with our customers, the nature of the settlement process and our systems may limit our ability to decline to extend short-term credit in such circumstances. for some types of customers, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which increases our potential loss if the customer experiences credit difficulties. from time to time, we may assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or guarantor level. in addition, we may from time to time be exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. we are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties that are affiliated entities and may not be able in all circumstances to net exposures across multiple products to the same legal entity. as a consequence, 8 table of contents we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to one of its affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured, and when our exposure is secured, the realizable market value of the collateral may be less at the time we exercise rights against that collateral than the value of the secured obligations. this risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily impaired market. see, for example, we are exposed to the risk of losses as a result of certain customer relationships with lehman brothers. in some cases, we have indemnified customers against a shortfall in the value of collateral that secures certain repurchase obligations of third parties to such customers. in addition, our customers often purchase securities or other financial instruments from a broker/dealer under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. under these arrangements, the broker/dealer is obligated to repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the customer at the same price at some point in the future. the anticipated value of the collateral is intended to exceed the broker/dealer repayment obligation. in certain cases, we agree to indemnify our customers from any loss that would arise upon a default by the counterparty if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or other financial assets is less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the customer counterparty. in those instances, we, rather than our customer, are exposed to the risks associated with counterparty default and collateral value. we are exposed to the risk of losses as a result of certain customer relationships with lehman brothers. we had indemnification obligations with respect to customer repurchase agreements with lehman. in the case of some of our customers that entered into repurchase agreements with a u.s.-based lehman affiliate, we indemnified obligations totaling $1 billion and, following the bankruptcy of lehman, paid this amount to our customers. upon such payments, we took possession of the collateral, consisting of commercial real estate obligations, that was subject to our customers repurchase agreements with lehman. based upon our assessment of the likely proceeds to be received from the disposition or maturity of this collateral in light of the then current market environment, during the third quarter of 2008, we established a reserve of $200 million to cover the difference between the estimated fair value of the collateral at the time and the payment we made to our customers. as we do with our investment portfolio, we continue to evaluate the value of the collateral. upon further evaluation or changes in market conditions, we may incur additional charges if the value of the collateral deteriorates. in addition, upon disposition or maturity of the collateral, the loss incurred may be greater than $200 million. in addition to the foregoing repurchase agreements, certain customers had entered into repurchase agreements with lehman u.k. affiliate. we have repaid those customers and taken possession of the related collateral; however, we believe that the proceeds from the disposition or maturity of the collateral will be at least equal to the amount we paid to such customers and, consequently, have not established a reserve related to those agreements. it is possible that we will incur losses relating to these agreements in the future. we appointed lehman as sub-custodian or prime broker for some of our custody customers and some investment funds managed by ssga. for custody customers, we made this appointment at their direction. in the case of investment funds managed by ssga, we appointed lehman in our capacity as manager of those funds. as of september 15, 2008, the date lehman was placed in administration, our custody customers had claims against lehman of approximately $325 million, and our investment funds had claims against lehman of approximately $312 million, both in connection with lehman role as a sub-custodian or prime broker. estimating the actual amount or timing of any recovery on our clients and funds claims against lehman is currently not possible. while we believe that we acted appropriately in appointing lehman as a sub-custodian and a prime-broker, some customers have requested that we compensate them for their losses. any agreement to compensate any of these customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 9 table of contents if all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely impacted. as of december 31, 2008, there were $5.45 billion of after-tax net unrealized losses associated with our portfolio of investment securities available for sale and held to maturity that were recorded in other comprehensive income in consolidated shareholders equity. in addition to these unrealized losses, there were $870 million of after-tax unrealized losses associated with securities held to maturity that were not required under gaap to be recorded in other comprehensive income. generally, the fair value of such securities is based upon information supplied by third-party sources. market values for the securities in our portfolio declined significantly during 2008 as liquidity and pricing generally in the capital markets was disrupted. when the fair value of a security declines, management must assess whether that decline is other-than-temporary. see we must apply significant judgment to assign fair values to our assets, and we may not be able to obtain these values, or any value, if these assets were sold. when management reviews whether a decline in fair value is other than temporary, it considers numerous factors, many of which involve significant judgment. as 2008 progressed, rating agencies imposed an increasing number of downgrades and credit watches on the securities in our investment portfolio, which contributed to the decline in market values. any continued increase in downgrades and credit watches may contribute to a further decline in market values. more generally, market conditions continue to be volatile, and we can provide no assurance that the amount of the unrealized losses will not increase. to the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and our capital ratios will be adversely impacted. if any such charge is significant, a rating agency might downgrade our credit rating or put us on credit watch. a downgrade or a significant reduction in our capital ratios might adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. even if we do not determine that the unrealized losses associated with the investment portfolio require an impairment charge, increases in such unrealized losses adversely affect our tangible common equity ratio, which may adversely affect credit rating agency and investor sentiment toward us. such negative perception also may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. our business activities, including the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits we administer, expose us to liquidity and interest-rate risk. in our business activities, we assume liquidity and interest-rate risk in our investment portfolio of longer-and intermediate-term assets, which is funded in large part by our customer deposit base. we may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or where the customers participating in these products have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. these business activities include, among others, the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits that we administer, as well as securities finance collateral pools and money market and other short-term investment funds. in the asset-backed commercial paper conduits, for example, pools of medium-and long-term financial instruments, principally mortgage- and other asset-backed securities, are financed through the issuance of short-term commercial paper. the conduits strive to maintain a positive margin between the rate of return on their longer-term assets and the short-term cost of funding. this mismatch in the maturity of the investment pools and funding creates risk if disruptions occur in the liquidity of the short-term debt or asset-backed securities markets, or if the cost of short-term borrowings exceeds the conduits rate of return on their investment pools or purchased assets. in connection with our administration of the asset-backed commercial paper conduits, we provide contractual back-up liquidity to the conduits. if the conduits cannot issue sufficient commercial paper to meet their ongoing liquidity needs, we are required by contract to, among other things, provide liquidity to the conduits by purchasing portfolio assets from them. if required, these portfolio assets are purchased at prices 10 table of contents determined in accordance with contractual terms of the applicable liquidity asset purchase agreement, which may exceed their fair value. we may also provide liquidity to the conduits by purchasing commercial paper from them or by providing other extensions of credit to the conduits. our asset-backed commercial paper conduit program experienced significantly reduced demand for its commercial paper financing beginning in the third quarter of 2007. as the disruption in the credit markets continued through 2008, our liquidity management of the conduits resulted in our purchasing historically high levels of commercial paper from the conduits. during 2008, the amount of commercial paper issued by the conduits held on our consolidated balance sheet increased from approximately $2 million as of december 31, 2007 to approximately $292 million as of march 31, 2008, approximately $212 million as of june 30, 2008, and approximately $7.82 billion as of september 30, 2008 (including $1.63 billion related to the federal reserve asset-backed commercial paper money market mutual fund liquidity facility, or amlf). on december 31, 2008, we held $230 million of commercial paper issued by the conduits on our consolidated balance sheet (which did not include $5.70 billion sold by the conduits to the federal reserve commercial paper funding facility, or cpff, as of december 31, 2008). the highest total overnight position (including amlf) in the conduits commercial paper held by state street during the quarter ended december 31, 2008, was approximately $8.89 billion and during the year ended december 31, 2008, was approximately $9.22 billion. the average total overnight position (including amlf) for the same periods was approximately $5.43 billion for the quarter ended december 31, 2008, and $2.27 billion for the year ended december 31, 2008. as noted above, as of december 31, 2008, the conduits had utilized the federal reserve cpff to issue $5.70 billion of commercial paper. the cpff is currently scheduled to expire for new issuances on october 30, 2009. we may be required to provide additional back-up liquidity if the conduits are unable to place their commercial paper in the market after the cpff expires. our contractual arrangements with the conduits also require us to purchase conduit portfolio assets under other circumstances, such as a downgrade of the credit rating of securities held by the conduits. purchase of the assets of the conduits pursuant to the contractual agreements described above could affect the size of our balance sheet and related funding requirements, our capital ratios, and, if the conduit assets include unrealized losses, could require us to recognize those losses. as of december 31, 2008, there were $3.56 billion of after-tax net unrealized losses associated with portfolio holdings of the conduits. because of our contractual agreements to purchase assets from the conduits under specified conditions, we are also exposed to the credit risks in the conduits portfolios. if for any reason we were to consolidate the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits that we administer onto our balance sheet, our funding requirements and capital ratios would be adversely affected and we may record significant unrealized losses. the unconsolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits we administer are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. if circumstances change, we may be required under existing accounting standards to consolidate some or all of the otherwise unconsolidated conduits onto our balance sheet. one factor taken into consideration in evaluating whether we are required to consolidate the conduits under existing accounting standards is whether we or third parties are exposed to the majority of the expected losses (as defined in the accounting literature) associated with certain risks in the conduits business. investors not affiliated with us have purchased from the conduits notes commonly referred to as first-loss notes that bear loss, up to the principal amount of the notes, before any loss would be allocated to us. we use financial models to determine whether the expected losses from the conduits are greater or less than the principal amount of the first-loss notes. if changes in market conditions require us to update the assumptions in our expected loss model, such that we conclude that we absorb greater than 50% of the expected losses, we may be required to consolidate one or more of the conduits unless the amount of first-loss notes is increased. as of december 31, 2008, these conduits had an aggregate of $67 million of first-loss notes outstanding compared to $32 million at december 31, 2007. in various circumstances, including if the conduits are not able to issue additional first-loss notes, we may be deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the conduits, and we would be required to consolidate the conduits assets and liabilities onto our balance sheet. moreover, current market conditions have increased the difficulty we 11 table of contents face in predicting any such future losses. for example, certain assets of the conduits are entitled to the benefit of guarantees from monoline insurance companies. our loss analysis depends on our ability to judge whether these insurance companies will continue to perform their guarantee obligations. the aggregate amortized cost of securities with underlying guarantees was approximately $2.49 billion at december 31, 2008 and $3.51 billion at december 31, 2007. certain of these securities, which totaled approximately $730 million at december 31, 2008, are currently drawing on the underlying guarantees in order to make contractual principal and interest payments to the conduits. in these cases, the performance of the underlying security is highly dependent on the performance of the guarantor. during 2008, many of these guarantors experienced ratings downgrades. the credit ratings of the guarantors ranged from aaa to ccc as of december 31, 2008. none of these securities are in default. it is also possible that changes to existing accounting standards will be adopted that will require us to consolidate the conduits. the financial accounting standards board is considering changes to accounting standards related to off-balance sheet vehicles such as the conduits and industry-wide revisions are under discussion that, if adopted in the form currently under consideration, would require us to consolidate, on january 1, 2010, all of the conduits we administer. alternatively, existing accounting standards may be interpreted differently in the future in a manner that increases the risk of consolidation of the conduits. consolidation would adversely affect the size of our balance sheet and related funding requirements, adversely affect our capital ratios and require us to recognize the conduits unrealized losses in the conduit assets resulting from the difference between the book value and the market value of the conduits portfolios. as of december 31, 2008, there were $3.56 billion of after-tax net unrealized losses associated with portfolio holdings of the conduits. we must apply significant judgment to assign fair values to our assets, and we may not be able to realize these values, or any value, if these assets were sold. as of december 31, 2008, including the effect of master netting agreements, approximately 39% of our consolidated total assets and approximately 8% of our consolidated total liabilities were carried at fair value on a recurring basis. current accounting standards require us to categorize these assets and liabilities according to a fair value valuation hierarchy. on the same basis, approximately 33% of our financial assets and approximately 8% of our financial liabilities were categorized in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy (meaning that their fair value was determined by reference to quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or other observable inputs) or level 3 (meaning that their fair value was determined by reference to inputs that are unobservable in the market and therefore require a greater degree of management judgment). the determination of fair value for financial assets and liabilities categorized in level 2 or 3 involves significant judgment due to the complexity of factors contributing to the valuation, many of which are not readily observable in the market. the current market disruptions make valuation even more difficult and subjective. in addition, we have historically placed a high level of reliance on information obtained from third-party sources to measure fair values. third-party sources also use assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining securities values, and different third parties use different methodologies or provide different prices for securities. in addition, the nature of the market participant that is valuing the securities at any given time could impact the valuation of the securities. for example, investment banks, such as the underwriters of our public offerings, may value our securities differently than securities pricing providers. moreover, depending upon, among other things, the measurement date of the security, the subsequent sale price of the security may be different from its recorded fair value. these differences may be significant, especially if the security is sold during a period of illiquidity or market disruption or as part of a large block of securities under a forced transaction. adverse conditions in the economy or financial markets may simultaneously trigger adverse events affecting multiple aspects of our business. adverse economic or financial market conditions could simultaneously adversely affect several aspects of our business. for example, conditions in the financial markets that might require us to purchase assets from the conduits pursuant to the liquidity asset purchase agreements or result in the consolidation of the conduits and 12 table of contents recognition of the conduits unrealized losses may at the same time also require us to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in our portfolio of investment securities. if multiple aspects of our business are simultaneously impacted by economic or financial market conditions or other events, the demands on our liquidity may exceed our resources. we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. as a result of continued disruption in the financial markets or other developments having an adverse effect on our capital ratios, we may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or for other purposes. however, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. if our custody customers experience high levels of redemption requests from their investors, or if high volumes in the securities markets disrupt normal settlements, we may provide significant and unanticipated overdraft availability, exposing us to risk of loss. we provide custody and related services for mutual funds and other collective investment vehicles managed by unaffiliated managers. generally, these affiliated and unaffiliated collective investment pools offer investors liquidity on a daily basis or with notice periods of a month or less. during periods of disruption in the financial markets, failures in the settlement process tend to increase, and investor demand for liquidity from these investment pools can be extremely high relative to normal cash levels maintained by those funds. in such circumstances, we may, but generally are not required to, provide short-term extensions of credit. for example, during the second half of 2008, we funded higher-than-normal levels of overdrafts by unaffiliated mutual funds and other collective investment vehicles, with particular liquidity requirements by money market funds. the provision of such overdraft availability may affect the size of our balance sheet, which, in the absence of additional capital, could adversely affect our capital ratios. in addition, if these overdrafts are substantial relative to the net assets of the investment pool, we may be subject to the risk that the investment pool is unable to liquidate assets to pay down the overdraft or that a decline in the value of the investment pool assets may result in the fund not having sufficient assets to satisfy its obligation to repay the overdrafts, exposing us to risk of loss. our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our customers incur substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent. our management of collective investment pools on behalf of customers exposes us to reputational risk. the incurrence by our customers of substantial losses in these pools, particularly in money market funds (where there is a general market expectation that net asset value will not drop below $1.00 per share), in situations where we make distributions in-kind to satisfy redemption requests or in circumstances where one of our investment strategies significantly underperforms the market or our competitors products, could result in significant harm to our reputation and significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple investment pools to achieve scale, we face increased risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in the aggregate. in some very limited circumstances, and consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we may compensate investment pools for all or a portion of the pool losses even though we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so. for example, during the first and fourth quarters of 2008, we elected to provide support to stable value accounts managed by ssga. these accounts, offered to retirement plans, allow participants to purchase and redeem units at a constant net asset value regardless of volatility in the underlying value of the assets held by the account. the accounts enter into contractual arrangements with third-party financial institutions that agree to make up any shortfall in the account if all the units are redeemed at the constant net asset value. these financial institutions have the right, under certain circumstances, to terminate this guarantee with respect to future investments in the account. during 2008, the liquidity and pricing issues in the fixed-income markets adversely impacted the market value of the securities in these accounts to the point that the third-party guarantors considered terminating their financial guarantees with the accounts. 13 table of contents during the first quarter of 2008, although we were not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so, we contributed $160 million to these accounts. in addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, although we were not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so, we elected to purchase approximately $2.49 billion of debt securities from these accounts that had been identified as presenting increased risk in the current market environment, and to contribute an aggregate of $450 million to the accounts, to improve the ratio of the market value of the accounts portfolio holdings to the book value of the accounts. this election resulted in a fourth quarter 2008 charge of $450 million. any future decision by us to provide financial support to our investment pools would potentially result in the recognition of significant losses and could in certain situations require us to consolidate the investment pools onto our balance sheet. a failure or inability to provide such support could damage our reputation among current and prospective customers. any termination by a third-party guarantor of its guarantee could, if we were unable to replace the guarantee, adversely affect our business or result in litigation. we may be exposed to customer claims, financial loss, reputational damage and regulatory scrutiny as a result of transacting purchases and redemptions relating to the unregistered cash collateral pools underlying our securities lending program at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit rather than a lower net asset value based upon market value of the underlying portfolios. a portion of the cash collateral received by customers under our securities lending program is invested in cash collateral pools that we manage. interests in these cash collateral pools are held by unaffiliated customers and by registered and unregistered investment funds that we manage. our cash collateral pools that are money market funds registered under the investment company act of 1940 are required to maintain, and have maintained, a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. the remainder of our cash collateral pools are bank collective investment funds that are not required to be registered under the investment company act. these unregistered cash collateral pools seek, but are not required, to maintain, and transact purchases and redemptions at, a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. at december 31, 2008 and december 31, 2007, the aggregate net asset value of these unregistered cash collateral pools (based on a constant net asset value of $1.00) was approximately $122 billion and $194 billion, respectively. throughout 2008 and currently, these unregistered cash collateral pools have continued to transact purchases and redemptions at a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit even though the market value of the unregistered cash collateral pools portfolio holdings, determined using pricing from third-party pricing sources, has been below $1.00 per unit. at december 31, 2008, the net asset value based upon market value of our unregistered cash collateral pools ranged from $0.908 to $1.00, with the weighted-average net asset value on such date being $0.939. a substantial portion of the decline in the market value of these assets occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008. we believe that our practice of continuing to transact at $1.00 per unit at the unregistered cash collateral pools, notwithstanding the underlying portfolios having a market value of less than $1.00 per unit, is consistent with the practices of other securities lending agents and in compliance with the terms of our unregistered cash collateral pools. we have continued this practice for a number of reasons, including that none of the securities in the cash collateral pools is currently in default or considered to be impaired, and that there are restrictions on withdrawals from the collective investment funds. moreover, the cash collateral pools have adequate sources of liquidity, from normal lending activity under the securities lending program, as a cash collateral pool without the need to sell securities the values of which have been adversely impacted by the lack of liquidity in the fixed-income markets. if we continue to transact purchases and redemptions from the unregistered cash collateral pools based upon a constant $1.00 per unit net asset value and the liquid assets of these pools turn out to be insufficient to support redemption activity at such value or the pools suffer material defaults on their underlying portfolio holdings, investors in the unregistered cash collateral pools may seek to hold us responsible for any shortfall due to prior redemptions at a value above the market value of the underlying portfolio or as a result of any such portfolio defaults. moreover, a broad range of unregistered collective investment pools that ssga manages, referred to as lending funds, participate in our securities lending program and as a result hold interests in the unregistered cash collateral pools discussed above. as a participant in these unregistered cash collateral pools, these lending funds may have the same claims as other clients discussed above. if it was determined that the historical or prospective 14 table of contents transaction valuation of these units for subscription or redemption purposes at $1.00 was not appropriate, or if investors in the lending funds determine for their own purposes that the units in the unregistered cash collateral pools held by the lending funds should be valued at a price of less than $1.00, the net asset value of the lending funds may also be adversely affected and the lending fund investors may claim that they overpaid for their investment and seek to hold us responsible for their related investment loss. if we continue to transact purchases and redemptions of units of the unregistered cash collateral pools at a net asset value that reflects a valuation of $1.00 per unit, such potential exposure would likely increase over time. since the percentage of a lending fund assets on loan varies based on the fund investment focus and with changes in market demand, the impact of this issue on the net asset value of the lending fund will vary significantly, but in some cases may be material. in such circumstances, our reputation as an asset manager and the marketability of these lending funds may be adversely affected and participants in our lending funds may seek to be compensated for any loss they incurred or allege to have incurred resulting from either a change in the reported net asset value of the collective investment pool or previous redemption and subscription activity in the collateral pools at the constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. any claims asserted by investors in the unregistered cash collateral pools or our lending funds may be substantial, may entail litigation and may result in regulatory scrutiny of our securities lending program. our plan to reduce operating costs and support long-term growth may not achieve its intended objectives. during the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded charges of $306 million in connection with a restructuring plan. the plan is intended to reduce our future operating costs, including through global workforce reductions that are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2009, in order to support our long-term growth while aligning the organization to meet the challenges and opportunities presented by the current market environment. risks associated with implementing our restructuring plan and other workforce management issues may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business. we may also experience delays in implementing the plan. to the extent we make changes to the plan, we may incur additional charges, adjust our accrual or re-evaluate the plan. if we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our consolidated financial condition, including our capital ratios, our results of operations and our business prospects could be harmed. liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated balance sheet and to our ability to service our customer base. we generally use our sources of funds to: extend credit to our customers in connection with our custody business; meet demands for return of funds on deposit by customers; and manage the pool of intermediate-and longer-term assets that comprise our investment portfolio. because the demand for credit by our customers is difficult to forecast and control, and may be at its peak at times of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment portfolio is significantly longer than the contractual maturity of our deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent upon, access to various sources of short-term funding. in managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is customer deposits, which are predominantly transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities and the perception of safety of those deposits or short-term obligations relative to alternative short-term investments available to our customers, including in the capital markets. for example, the disruption in the global fixed-income securities markets, which began in the third quarter of 2007 and continued throughout 2008, had a substantially greater impact upon liquidity and valuations in those markets than has historically been experienced. in addition, liquidity in the inter-bank market, as well as the markets for commercial paper, certificates of deposit and other short-term instruments, significantly contracted during 2008. 15 table of contents the availability and cost of credit in short-term markets is highly dependent upon the markets perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven reductions in liquidity. in such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in our realizing a loss or experiencing other adverse consequences, including adverse accounting consequences. if we are unable to successfully invest customer deposits our business may be adversely affected. during the recent market disruptions, we experienced substantial inflows of liquid assets, particularly customer deposits, as short-term deposits with us became more attractive relative to other short-term investment options. however, the contraction in the number of counterparties for which we had a favorable credit assessment made it difficult to invest, even on an overnight basis, all of our available liquidity, which adversely impacted the rate of return that we earned on these assets. as a result of this contraction of counterparties during the recent market disruptions, we have frequently placed deposits with government central banks, resulting in a minimal rate of return. if we continue to face difficulty investing these assets, our ability to attract customer deposits may be harmed, which would in turn harm our business and our results of operations. any downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm. various independent rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. we anticipate that the rating agencies will review our ratings regularly based on our results of operations and developments in our business. we cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain our current ratings. the current market environment and exposure to other financial institution counterparties increases the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. a failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in certain products, may be negatively perceived by our customers or counterparties or may have other adverse reputational effects. an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength may cause others to reduce or cease doing business with us. our counterparties, as well as our customers, rely upon our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. if we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including due to market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may become less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us, our customers may reduce or place limits upon the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers and our prospective customers may select other service providers. the risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is increased in the current market environment, where the consolidation of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, is resulting in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. if our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our customers, on our or our customers behalf, will be materially compromised. if our customers reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide them, our net interest revenue and fee revenue will decrease accordingly. our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. our relationship with many of our customers is predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet customer expectations and other issues could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain customers or our 16 table of contents sources of funding. preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and customer expectations. if any of these developments has a material effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. governmental responses to recent market disruptions may be inadequate and may have unintended consequences. in response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators have taken a number of steps to stabilize the financial markets. these steps included the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, the provision of other direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker/dealers, implementation of programs by the federal reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and temporary prohibitions on short sales of certain financial institution securities. additional legislative and regulatory measures are under consideration, including, for example, measures with respect to modifications of residential mortgages. the overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain, and may not have the intended stabilization effects. in addition to these actions in the u.s., other governments have taken regulatory and other steps to support financial institutions, to guarantee deposits and to seek to stabilize the financial markets. should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize the financial markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, while these measures have been taken to support the markets, they may have unintended consequences on the global financial system or our businesses, including reducing competition, increasing the general level of uncertainty in the markets or favoring or disfavoring certain lines of business, institutions or depositors. we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. our participation in the u.s. treasury tarp capital purchase program restricts our ability to increase dividends on our common stock, undertake stock repurchase programs and compensate our employees. in october 2008, the u.s. treasury invested $2 billion in state street pursuant to the tarp capital purchase program. the terms of the tarp capital purchase program require us to pay cumulative preferred dividends to treasury and restrict our ability to increase dividends on our common stock, redeem treasury investment without receiving high-quality replacement capital, undertake common stock repurchase programs and compensate our employees. in february 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act, among other things, retroactively imposed additional compensation and governance restrictions on participants in the program. additional restrictions may be imposed by treasury or congress on us at a later date, and these restrictions may also apply to us retroactively. these restrictions may have a material adverse affect on our operations, revenue and financial condition, on our ability to pay dividends or on our ability to attract talented executives and other employees. government-imposed limitations on short sales and investor decisions to reduce short selling may harm our securities finance revenues. government-imposed prohibitions and restrictions on short sales of securities, designed to address perceived market abuses, negatively impacted the value of securities on loan during 2008. although many of these restrictions have expired, continued reductions in the overall volume of short sales likely would decrease our securities finance revenue. in addition, media and regulatory focus on short selling, and losses incurred in securities finance programs sponsored by other financial institutions, have caused some institutional investors to reduce or eliminate their securities finance programs. continued investor avoidance of short sales or renewed regulatory prohibitions on short sales would affect our business model and the demand for our services, and both our revenue from securities finance operations and the liquidity and market value of the collateral pools in which our customers invest may be adversely affected. 17 table of contents because our fee income is based in part on the value of assets under custody or management, our business could be adversely affected by further declines in asset values. the significant declines in equity and other financial markets globally during 2008 have adversely affected and are likely to continue to adversely affect our fee revenue, which is based in part upon the value of assets under custody, administration or management. further deterioration or a continuation of recent market conditions is likely to lead to a continued decline in the value of assets under custody, administration or management, which would reduce our asset-based fee revenue and may adversely affect other transaction-based revenue, such as securities finance revenue, and the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers. many of the costs of providing our services are relatively fixed. therefore, any such decline in revenue would have a disproportionate effect on our earnings. the illiquidity and volatility of global fixed-income and equity markets has affected our ability to effectively and profitably manage our investment pools and may make our products less attractive to customers. we manage assets on behalf of customers in several forms, including in collective investment pools, including money market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term investment funds. in addition to the impact on the market value of customer portfolios, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected our ability to manage customer inflows and outflows from our pooled investment vehicles. within our asset management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds, that generally offer our customers the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally daily or monthly. this feature requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably anticipated liquidity requirements of our customers. during the 2008 market disruptions, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short-and long-term fixed-income securities, declined dramatically, and providing liquidity to meet all customer demands in these investment pools without adversely impacting the return to non-withdrawing customers became more difficult. for customers that invest directly or indirectly in certain of the collateral pools and seek to terminate participation in lending programs, we have required, in accordance with the applicable customer arrangements, that these withdrawals from the collateral pools take the form of partial in-kind distributions of securities. although we are entitled to make distributions in-kind, customers have in some cases sought, and may in the future seek, reimbursement for any loss that they incur in connection with the disposition of such securities. if these higher than normal demands for liquidity from our customers continue or increase, it could become more difficult to manage the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools and, as a result, we may elect (or in some situations be required) to support the liquidity of these pools. if the liquidity in the fixed-income markets were to deteriorate further or remain disrupted for a prolonged period, our relationship with our customers may be adversely affected, levels of redemption activity could increase and our results of operations and business prospects could be adversely impacted. in addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and it may then be difficult to sell the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, if at all. alternatively, although we have no such arrangements currently in place, we have in the past, and may in the future, guaranteed liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a fund, and a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own liquidity and financial condition. because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity demands of our customers. the extreme volatility in the equity markets has led to potential for the return on passive and quantitative products deviating from their target return. the temporary closures of securities exchanges in certain markets, such as occurred in brazil and russia in the second half of 2008, or artificial floors such as the one implemented in pakistan, create a risk that customer redemptions in pooled investment vehicles may result in significant tracking error and underperformance relative to stated benchmarks. any failure of the pools to meet redemption requests or to underperform relative to similar products offered by our competitors could harm our business and our reputation. 18 table of contents we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. the markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. we have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker-dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. ongoing consolidation within the financial services industry could pose challenges in the markets we serve, including potentially increased downward pricing pressure across our businesses. many of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. these competitors are in some instances significant customers, and the retention of these customers involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our customer after a short notice period. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, customer pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. if we fail to attract new customers and cross-sell additional products and services to our existing customers, our prospects for growth may be harmed. our strategy for growth depends upon both attracting new customers and cross-selling additional products and services to our existing customer base. to the extent that we are not able to achieve these goals, we may not be able to meet our financial goals. in addition, our proactive cross-selling of multiple products and services to our customers can exacerbate the negative financial effects associated with the risk of loss of any one customer. development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. the introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and resources. substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our customers and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely manner at competitive prices. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our customers. failure to manage successfully these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, as well as our results of operations and financial condition. it may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. we may be unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively, which may allow competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. to the extent that we are not able to protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, employees with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others advantage. in addition, we may infringe upon claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. we may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. the intellectual property of an acquired business, such as that of currenex, inc., acquired in 2007, may be an 19 table of contents important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. however, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent upon licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated. we may be unable to increase the portion of our management fee revenue that is generated from enhanced index and actively managed products, and the investment performance of these products may result in a reduction in the fees that we earn. over the past several years, we have sought to increase the portion of our management fee revenue generated from enhanced index and actively managed products, with respect to which we generally receive fees at higher rates compared to passive products. we may not be able to continue to increase this segment of our business at a rate that is consistent with our business and financial goals. the amount of assets we are able to attract and retain in active strategies depends on the performance of such products relative to competitive products in the institutional marketplace. for example, our active fixed-income business continues to be adversely impacted by underperformance in certain fixed-income strategies that occurred in 2007. in addition, with respect to certain of our enhanced index and actively managed products, we have entered into performance fee arrangements, where the management fee revenue we earn is based on the performance of managed funds against specified benchmarks. the reliance on performance fees increases the potential volatility of our management fee revenue. if investment performance in our asset management business fails to meet either benchmarks or the performance of our competitors, we could experience a decline in assets under management and a reduction in the fees that we earn, irrespective of economic or market conditions. our business is subject to risks from foreign exchange movements. the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. in general, increased currency volatility may increase our market risk, and our foreign exchange revenue, all other things being equal, is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. in addition, as our business grows globally, our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our levels of revenue, expense and earnings, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations. our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates. our financial performance could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates as they impact our asset and liability management activities. the levels of interest rates in global markets, changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, affect our net interest revenue. our ability to anticipate these changes or to hedge the related exposures on and off our consolidated balance sheet can significantly influence the success of our asset and liability management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. the impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative durations of assets and liabilities in accordance with their relevant currencies. in general, sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestiture pose risks for our business. acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, development of strategic alliances and divestiture of portions of our business, in addition to fostering organic growth opportunities, are an active part of our overall business strategy to remain competitive. the integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. our financial results would be significantly harmed by an inability to achieve the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipated in valuing an acquired business. we may not be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related revenue growth or cost savings. we also face the risk of being unable to retain the customer bases of 20 table of contents acquired companies or unable to cross-sell our products and services to its customers. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in customer dissatisfaction and defection. customers of asset servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these customers or a significant reduction in revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, would adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions. in addition, we may not be able to successfully manage the divestiture of identified businesses on satisfactory terms, if at all, which would reduce any anticipated benefits to earnings. with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. the acquisition and combination of a business with our operations may also expose us to risks from unknown or contingent liabilities with respect to which we may have no recourse against the seller. acquisition transactions are often competitive auctions in which we have limited time and access to information to evaluate the risks inherent in the business being acquired, and no or limited recourse against the seller if undisclosed liabilities are discovered after we enter into a definitive agreement. we may not achieve the benefits we sought in an acquisition, or, if achieved, those benefits may be achieved later than we anticipated. failure to achieve anticipated benefits from an acquisition could result in increased costs and lower revenues than expected of the combined company. in addition, if the financial performance associated with an acquisition falls short of expectations, impairment charges associated with the goodwill or other intangible assets recorded as part of the acquisition may result. unavailability of financing may make future business acquisitions or dispositions difficult. our ability to make acquisitions in order to achieve greater economies of scale or to expand our product offering is dependent upon our financial resources and our ability to access the capital markets. in addition, our ability to dispose of businesses that no longer fit our business model may be difficult if attractive financing is not available to prospective buyers. due to company-specific issues or lack of liquidity in the capital markets, our ability to continue to expand through acquisitions or to dispose of businesses that no longer are strategic to us may be adversely affected. we face significant regulatory hurdles when planning business acquisitions. in connection with most acquisitions, before the acquisition can be completed, we must obtain various regulatory approvals or consents, which may include approvals of the federal reserve, the massachusetts commissioner of banks and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms. any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction. competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of compensation restrictions applicable to us, as a participant in the tarp capital purchase program, under the emergency economic recovery act of 2008, as amended by the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, their years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely impact customer perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates. in some of our businesses, we have experienced significant employee turnover, which increases costs, requires additional training and increases the potential for operational errors. 21 table of contents long-term fixed-price contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk. we enter into long-term fixed-price contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing services to customers, including services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. the long-term contracts for these relationships require considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services and our ability to control our costs and maintain the relationship with the customer for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. our estimate of the profitability of these arrangements can be adversely impacted by declines in the assets under the customers management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or customer specific issues. in addition, the profitability of these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross sell additional services to these customers, and we may be unable to do so. in addition, performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. our failure to meet specified service levels may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the customer. if the current decline in overall market securities valuations persists or our customers are unable to grow their businesses, these relationships may not be successful. these relationships have been an area of rapid growth in our business, and if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see a slowdown in the growth rate of our revenue. we face significant risks developing and implementing our future business plans and strategies. in order to maintain and grow our business, we must continuously make strategic decisions about our future business plans, including plans for entering or exiting business lines or geographic markets, plans for acquiring or disposing of businesses and plans to build new systems and other infrastructure. our business, our results of operations and our financial position may be adversely affected by incorrect business and strategic decisions or improper implementation of our decisions. if the business decisions that we make prove erroneous, we may fail to be responsive to industry changes or customer demands. moreover, the implementation of our decisions may involve significant capital outlays, often far in advance of when we expect to derive any related revenues, and therefore it may be difficult to alter or abandon plans without incurring significant loss. we are exposed to operational risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations. operational risk is inherent in all of our activities. our customers have a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. we face the risk that the policies, procedures and systems we have established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, be inadequate or become outdated. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or monitoring mechanisms or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our future results of operations. operational errors that result in us sending funds to a failing or bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses. we may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. in addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be negatively affected. when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies from operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents we depend on information technology, and any failures of our information technology systems could result in significant costs and reputational damage. our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure to record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets. any interruptions, delays or breakdowns of this infrastructure could result in significant costs and reputational damage. cost shifting to foreign jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings. we actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations, including by forming joint ventures and by establishing operations in lower cost areas, such as poland, india and china, and outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions. this effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these business operations. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. during periods of transition, greater operational risk and customer concern exist regarding the continuity of a high level of service delivery. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be impacted by regulatory and customer acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects. our businesses and relationships with customers are dependent upon our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our customers trade secrets and confidential information (including customer transactional data and personal data about our employees, our customers and our customers customers). unauthorized access to such information may occur, resulting in theft, loss or other misappropriation. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive positions, our relationships with our customers and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries and enforcement, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs. our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. from time to time, our customers may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. we may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. in any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. in the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. these may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. in regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending matter or, if determined adversely to us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. the resolution of certain pending legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved. 23 table of contents we face litigation risks in connection with ssga active fixed-income strategies. in connection with certain of ssga active fixed-income strategies, during the fourth quarter of 2007, we established a reserve of approximately $625 million to address legal exposure and related costs in connection with such strategies. among other things, the portfolio managers for certain actively managed fixed-income strategies materially increased the exposure of these strategies to securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages and shifted the weighting of these portfolios to more highly rated sub-prime instruments. during the third quarter of 2007, as the liquidity and valuations of these securities, including the more highly rated instruments, came under increased pressure, the performance of these strategies was adversely, and in some cases significantly, affected. the underperformance, which was greater than that typically associated with fixed-income funds, also caused a number of our customers to question whether the execution of these strategies was consistent with their investment intent. this questioning has resulted in several civil suits, including putative class action claims, applicable both to funds registered under the investment company act of 1940 and to those that are exempt from such registration. these lawsuits allege, among other things, that we failed to comply with applicable investment limitations, disclosure obligations and our requisite standard of care in managing these active funds, including those where we act as a fiduciary under erisa. we have also received, and are in the process of responding to, inquiries or subpoenas from federal and state regulatory authorities regarding ssga active fixed-income strategies. given our desire to fully respond to customer concerns, in the fourth quarter of 2007, state street undertook a further review of all the actively managed fixed-income strategies at ssga that were exposed to sub-prime investments. based on our review and ongoing discussions with customers who were invested in these strategies, we established a reserve to address our estimated legal exposure. the reserve was established based upon our best judgment as to legal exposures and related costs associated with certain actively managed fixed-income investment strategies. as of december 31, 2008, we had made settlement and related payments totaling approximately $417 million. the amount of the original reserve was based on certain assumptions. while we believe the reserve represents a reasonable estimate of our legal exposure and other costs associated with these issues, we do not believe that it is feasible to predict or determine the amount of such exposure with certainty. as such, it is possible that we have overestimated or underestimated our exposure. if the amount of our actual exposure is materially different from our reserve, there would be a material impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we face extensive and changing government regulation, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance. most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the customers to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulatory and supervisory oversight, both in the u.s. and outside the u.s. in connection with our global operations. the regulations affect, among other things, the scope of our activities and customer services, our capital structure and our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy and the manner in which we market our services. evolving regulations, such as the basel ii and other global regulatory capital frameworks, short-selling regulations and anti-money laundering regulations, may impose significant compliance costs on us. the disruption of the financial markets in 2008 and resulting governmental support of, and loss of confidence in, financial institutions is likely to result in demand for increased and more extensive regulation of our business both in the u.s and internationally. different countries may respond to the market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting manner, which could have the impact of increasing the cost of compliance for us. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our financial results. similarly, many of our customers are subject to significant regulatory requirements, and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or 24 table of contents perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers. if we cause customers to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. new accounting standards, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the financial accounting standards board or the sec, can potentially affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. these changes are difficult to predict, and can materially impact how we record and report our consolidated financial condition and results of operations and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of prior period financial statements. changes in tax laws or regulations, and challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition. our businesses can be affected by new tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. changes in tax laws may affect our business directly or indirectly through their impact on the financial markets. in the normal course of business, we are subject to reviews by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities. these reviews may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxes due and the allocation of taxable income among tax jurisdictions. these adjustments could affect the attainment of our financial goals. prior to 2004, we entered into certain leveraged leases, known as sale-in, lease-out, or silo, transactions. the internal revenue service, or irs, challenged our tax deductions arising from those transactions. during the second quarter of 2008, while we were engaged in settlement discussions with them, the irs won a court victory in a silo case involving other taxpayers. shortly after that decision, the irs suspended all silo settlement discussions and, on august 5, 2008, issued a standard silo settlement offer to most taxpayers that had such transactions. after reviewing the settlement offer carefully, we have decided not to accept it but to continue to pursue our appeal rights within the irs. in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 13, accounting for leases , we originally recorded income and deferred tax liabilities with respect to our silo transactions based on projected pre-tax and tax cash flows. in consideration of the terms of the settlement offer and the context in which it was issued, we revised our projections of the timing and amount of the tax cash flows and reflected those revisions in our leveraged lease accounting. during the third quarter of 2008 we substantially increased our reserve for tax-related interest expense that may be incurred upon resolution of this matter. if we were to further revise our projection of the timing or amount of the tax cash flows from the leases, existing accounting standards would require us to again recalculate the rate of return and the recognition of income from the leases from inception. in addition to the recalculation, it is possible that we would increase our reserve for tax-related interest expense, which would be recorded as an increase to income tax expense. the quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in imprecise risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions. we use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our business. as an input to our overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, operational risk and business risk we face. during the preparation of our financial statements, we sometimes use models to value positions for which reliable market prices are not available. we also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading activities, hedging, asset and liability management and whether to change business strategy. in all of these uses, errors in the underlying model could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences. because of our widespread usage of models, potential errors in models pose an ongoing risk to us. 25 table of contents our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate. we may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. we have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems are adequate to identify and manage the risks inherent in our various businesses. in addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. we may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. if our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or our business or for other reasons, we could incur losses. we may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face, which could subject us to losses. we may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. our measurement methodologies rely upon many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations we rely on may not continue to be relevant. consequently, the measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect those changes. while our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have inadequate capital to conduct our businesses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth in the market risk section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in this form 10-k under item 7, is incorporated by reference herein. 79 table of contentsfinancial information with respect to income taxes and non-u.s. activities is included in notes 21 and 24 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. lines of business we have two lines of business: investment servicing and investment management. these two lines of business provide services to support institutional investors, including custody, recordkeeping, daily pricing and administration, shareholder services, foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services, securities finance, 1 table of contents deposit and short-term investment facilities, loan and lease financing, investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing, performance, risk and compliance analytics, investment research and investment management, including passive and active u.s. and non-u.s. equity and fixed-income strategies. for additional information about our lines of business, see the line of business information section of management discussion and analysis included under item 7, and note 23 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. competition we operate in a highly competitive environment in all areas of our business worldwide. we face competition from other financial services institutions, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banking firms, benefits consultants, leasing companies, and business service and software companies. as we expand globally, we encounter additional sources of competition. we believe that there are certain key competitive considerations in these markets. these considerations include, for investment servicing, quality of service, economies of scale, technological expertise, quality and scope of sales and marketing, and price; and for investment management, expertise, experience, the availability of related service offerings, quality of service and performance, and price. our competitive success will depend upon our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to continue and expand our relationships with existing customers and to attract new customers. supervision and regulation the parent company is registered with the board of governors of the federal reserve system, which we refer to as the federal reserve, as a bank holding company pursuant to the bank holding company act of 1956. the bank holding company act, with certain exceptions, limits the activities in which we and our non-banking subsidiaries may engage, to those that the federal reserve considers to be closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks. these limits also apply to non-banking entities of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares. the federal reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary if the federal reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. the bank holding company act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the federal reserve before it may acquire substantially all the assets of any bank or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank. the parent company operates as a financial holding company, which reduces to some extent the federal reserve restrictions on our activities. a financial holding company and the companies under its control are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature as defined by the gramm-leach-bliley act and federal reserve interpretations, and therefore the parent company may engage in a broader range of activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature, either de novo or by acquisition, provided the financial holding company gives the federal reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; merchant banking, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the federal reserve to be closely related to banking. in order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, each of our depository subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed, as judged by regulators, and must comply with community reinvestment act obligations. failure to maintain these standards may ultimately permit the federal reserve to take enforcement actions against us. many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other u.s. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-u.s. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. aspects of our public disclosure, 2 table of contents corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and regulations and rules of the sec and the new york stock exchange. capital adequacy like other bank holding companies, we are subject to federal reserve minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines. as noted above, our status as a financial holding company also requires that we maintain specified capital ratio levels. state street bank is subject to similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines. as of december 31, 2009, our capital levels on a consolidated basis, and the capital levels of state street bank, exceeded the applicable minimum capital requirements and the requirements to qualify as a financial holding company. failure to meet capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of deposit insurance of state street bank by the federal deposit insurance corporation, and to certain restrictions on our business that are described further in this supervision and regulation section. for additional information about our capital position and capital adequacy, refer to the capital section of management discussion and analysis included under item 7, and note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. subsidiaries the federal reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including state street bank, for both our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. our bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities. state street bank is a member of the federal reserve system and the fdic and is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the federal reserve, as well as by the massachusetts commissioner of banks, the fdic, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries in which a branch of state street bank is located. other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the office of the comptroller of the currency, other offices of the federal reserve system or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are located. our non-u.s. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they are located. as of december 31, 2009, the capital of each of these banking subsidiaries was in excess of the minimum legal capital requirements as set by those authorities. the parent company and its non-banking subsidiaries are affiliates of state street bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on transfers of funds in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases from state street bank to the parent and its non-banking subsidiaries. transfers of this kind to affiliates by state street bank are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of state street bank capital and surplus, as defined, and to 20% in the aggregate for all affiliates, and are subject to collateral requirements. federal law also provides that certain transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same or at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies. state street bank is also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services. the federal reserve has jurisdiction to regulate the terms of certain debt issues of bank holding companies. federal law provides as well for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the fdic. our investment management division, state street global advisors, or ssga, which acts as an investment advisor to investment companies registered under the investment company act of 1940, is registered as an investment advisor with the sec. however, a major portion of our investment management activities are conducted by state street bank, which is subject to supervision primarily by the federal reserve with respect to these activities. our u.s. broker/dealer subsidiary is registered as a broker/dealer with the sec, is subject to 3 table of contents regulation by the sec (including the sec net capital rule) and is a member of the financial industry regulatory authority, a self-regulatory organization. many aspects of our investment management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders. these laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from carrying on our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority. our business relating to investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to erisa and is regulated by the u.s. department of labor. our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-u.s. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. for instance, the financial services authority, the london stock exchange, and the euronext.liffe regulate our activities in the united kingdom; the federal financial supervisory authority and the deutsche borse ag regulate our activities in germany; and the financial services agency, the bank of japan, the japanese securities dealers association and several japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the tokyo stock exchange, regulate our activities in japan. we have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with these requirements. however, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs in our worldwide compliance efforts. most of our non-u.s. operations are conducted pursuant to federal reserve regulation k through state street bank edge act corporation subsidiary or through international branches of state street bank. an edge act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities. in general, banks may not invest more than 20% of their capital and surplus in their edge act corporations (and similar state law corporations), and the investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the federal reserve. in addition to our non-u.s. operations conducted pursuant to regulation k, we make new investments abroad directly (through the parent company or through non-banking subsidiaries of the parent company) pursuant to federal reserve regulation y, or through international bank branch expansion, which are not subject to the 20% investment limitation for edge act corporation subsidiaries. we are subject to the usa patriot act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including standards for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. anti-money laundering laws outside the u.s. contain similar requirements. we are also subject to the massachusetts bank holding company statute. the statute requires prior approval by the massachusetts board of bank incorporation for our acquisition of more than 5% of the voting shares of any additional bank and for other forms of bank acquisitions. support of subsidiary banks under federal reserve guidelines, a bank holding company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries. under these guidelines, the parent company is expected to commit resources to state street bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which it might not do so absent such guidelines. in the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by the parent company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment. economic conditions and government policies economic policies of the u.s. government and its agencies influence our operating environment. monetary policy conducted by the federal reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may impact overall credit conditions of the economy. monetary policy is applied by the federal reserve through open market operations in u.s. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and 4 table of contents changes in the discount rate and availability of borrowing from the federal reserve. government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions. we are also impacted by the economic policies of non-u.s. government agencies, such as the european central bank. statistical disclosure by bank holding companies the following information, included under items 6, 7 and 8, is incorporated by reference herein: selected financial data table (item 6) presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios. distribution of average assets, liabilities and shareholders equity; interest rates and interest differential table (item 8) presents average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. note 3, investment securities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements (item 8) and investment securities section included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category). note 1, summary of significant accounting policies loans and lease financing of the notes to consolidated financial statements (item 8) discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status. note 4, loans and lease financing, of the notes to consolidated financial statements (item 8) and loans and lease financing section included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) disclose distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates. loans and lease financing and cross-border outstandings sections of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) disclose information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of state street. credit risk section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) and note 4, loans and lease financing, of the notes to consolidated financial statements (item 8) present the allocation of the allowance for loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced management judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations. distribution of average assets, liabilities and shareholders equity; interest rates and interest differential table (item 8) discloses deposit information. note 8, short-term borrowings, of the notes to consolidated financial statements (item 8) discloses information regarding short-term borrowings of state street. item 1a. risk factors this form 10-k contains statements (including statements in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included under item 7) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of u.s. securities laws, including statements about industry trends, management future expectations and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts, are based on assumptions by management, and are often identified by such forward-looking terminology as expect, look, believe, anticipate, estimate, seek, may, will, trend, target and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms. forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements about our confidence in our strategies and our expectations about our financial performance, market growth, acquisitions and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities and earnings. 5 table of contents forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of future results. management expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to state street and its subsidiaries, including state street bank. factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based include, but are not limited to: financial market disruptions and the economic recession, whether in the u.s. or internationally, and monetary and other governmental actions, including regulation, taxes and fees, designed to address or otherwise be responsive to such disruptions and recession, including actions taken in the u.s. and internationally to address the financial and economic disruptions that began in 2007; increases in the volatility of, or declines in the levels of, our net interest revenue, changes in the composition of the assets on our consolidated balance sheet and the possibility that we may be required to change the manner in which we fund those assets; the financial strength and continuing viability of the counterparties with which we or our customers do business and to which we have investment, credit or financial exposure; the liquidity of the u.s. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities, and the liquidity requirements of our customers; the credit quality, credit agency ratings, and fair values of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition in our consolidated statement of income of an impairment loss; the maintenance of credit agency ratings for our debt and depository obligations as well as the level of credibility of credit agency ratings; the ability to complete our announced and pending acquisitions, as well as future acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures, including the ability to obtain regulatory approvals, the ability to arrange financing as required, and the ability to satisfy other closing conditions; the risks that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will take longer than anticipated, that expected synergies will not be achieved or unexpected disynergies will be experienced, that customer and deposit retention goals will not be met, that other regulatory or operational challenges will be experienced and that disruptions from the transaction will harm relationships with customers, employees or regulators; the possibility of our customers incurring substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent, and the possibility of further general reductions in the valuation of assets; our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding; potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to the effects of consolidation, and perceptions of state street as a suitable service provider or counterparty; the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; our ability to measure the fair value of the investment securities on our consolidated balance sheet; the results of litigation, government investigations and similar disputes or proceedings; the enactment of new legislation and changes in government regulation and enforcement which affect us or our customers, and which may increase our costs and expose us to risk related to compliance; adverse publicity or other reputational harm; 6 table of contents the performance and demand for the products and services we offer, including the level and timing of withdrawals from our collective investment products; our ability to grow revenue, attract and/or retain and compensate highly skilled people, control expenses and attract the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements; our ability to control operating risks, information technology systems risks and outsourcing risks and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will fail or be circumvented; the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk; changes in accounting standards and practices; and changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that impact the amount of taxes due. therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this form 10-k or disclosed in our other sec filings. forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the time this form 10-k is filed with the sec. we undertake no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k to reflect events after the time it is filed with the sec. the factors discussed above are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. we cannot anticipate all potential economic, operational and financial developments that may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis upon which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our sec filings, including our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934, in particular our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, or registration statements filed under the securities act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the sec website at www.sec.gov or on our website at www.statestreet.com . the following is a discussion of risk factors applicable to state street. disruptions in the global financial markets that began in mid-2007 have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses, and continued or additional disruptions could have an adverse effect on our businesses, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. since mid-2007, global credit and other financial markets have suffered from substantial volatility, illiquidity and disruption. these factors resulted in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or significant government assistance to, a number of major domestic and international financial institutions, some of which were significant counterparties with us. these events, and the potential for continuing disruptions, have affected overall confidence in the financial markets and in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and pricing issues within the fixed-income markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our business and have had an adverse effect on our businesses, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. the continuation of current disruptions or the occurrence of additional disruptions in the global markets could have an adverse effect on our businesses and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. market disruptions could continue to adversely impact our fee revenue as the value of assets under custody, administration or management would decline, while the costs of providing the related services would remain constant due to the fixed nature of such costs. these factors could reduce our asset-based fee revenue and could adversely affect our other transaction-based revenue, such as securities finance and foreign exchange revenue, and the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers, but the costs of providing the related services would not similarly decline. further, the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign 7 table of contents exchange trading revenue. in general, increased currency volatility may increase our market risk, and our foreign exchange revenue, all other things being equal, is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. in addition, as our business grows globally, our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our levels of consolidated revenue, expense and results of operations, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations. the overall worldwide economic recession has adversely affected, and is likely to continue to adversely affect, our businesses and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. our businesses are affected by global economic conditions, including regional and international rates of economic growth and the impact that such economic conditions have on the financial markets. the downturn in the global economies, as well as the u.s. economy, that began in mid-2007 has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, a lack of consumer confidence, decreased market valuations and liquidity, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction of business activity generally. the resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our businesses and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, as well as the business of our customers. a worsening of economic conditions in the u.s. or globally would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult conditions on us and on the financial services industry in general. the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, many of whom are financial institutions, and our assumption of significant credit and counterparty risk, could expose us to loss. the financial markets are characterized by extensive interconnections among financial institutions, including banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds and insurance companies. as a result of these interconnections, we and many of our customers have concentrated counterparty exposure to other financial institutions. although we have procedures for monitoring both individual and aggregate counterparty risk, like other large financial institutions, the nature of our business is such that large individual and aggregate counterparty exposure is inherent in our business as our focus on large institutional investors and their businesses. at any point in time, having one or more counterparties to which our exposure exceeds 10% of our total shareholders equity, exclusive of unrealized gains or losses, is not unusual. concentration of counterparty exposure presents significant risks to us and to our customers because the failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties (or in some cases of our customers counterparties) has the potential to expose us to risk of loss. the current instability of the financial markets has resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, and as a result we are exposed to increased counterparty risks, both as principal and in our capacity as agent for our customers. changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions can occur rapidly, is often based upon a variety of factors and is difficult to predict. in addition, as u.s. and non-u.s. governments have addressed the financial crisis in an evolving manner, the criteria for and manner of governmental support of financial institutions and other economically important sectors remain uncertain. if a significant individual counterparty defaults on an obligation to us, we could incur financial losses that materially adversely affect our businesses and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. the degree of customer demand for short-term credit also tends to increase during periods of market turbulence, exposing us to further counterparty-related risks. for example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may engage in significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was not anticipated by the fund manager. our relationship with our customers, the nature of the settlement process and our systems result in the extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. for some types of customers, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which increases our potential loss if the customer experiences credit difficulties. from time to time, we may assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or guarantor level. in addition, we may from time to time be exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. we are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties 8 table of contents that are affiliated entities and may not be able in all circumstances to net exposures across multiple products to the same legal entity. as a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to one of its affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured, and when our exposure is secured, the realizable market value of the collateral may have declined by the time we exercise rights against that collateral. this risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily impaired market. in addition, our customers often purchase securities or other financial instruments from a financial counterparty, including broker/dealers, under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. under these arrangements, the counterparty is obligated to repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the customer at the same price at some point in the future. the anticipated value of the collateral is intended to exceed the counterparty repayment obligation. in many cases, we agree to indemnify our customers from any loss that would arise upon a default by the counterparty if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or other financial assets are less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the customer counterparty. in those instances, we, rather than our customer, are exposed to the risks associated with counterparty default and collateral value. some of the assets on our consolidated balance sheet are entitled to the benefit of guarantees from monoline insurance companies. several of these insurance companies have experienced significant deterioration in their financial condition. to the extent that assets require credit support from the guarantors to be able to pay principal and interest in full and the guarantor does not or is not able to make payments required under the guarantee, we are exposed to risk of loss. although our overall business is subject to these interconnections, several of our lines of business are particularly sensitive to them, including our global treasury operations, currency and other trading, securities lending and investment management. given the limited number of strong counterparties in the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our customers counterparty credit risk. the current consolidation of financial service firms that began in 2008, and which we believe is likely to continue in 2010, and the failures of other financial institutions, have increased the concentration of our counterparty risk. we may incur losses, which could be material to our financial results in the periods incurred, arising from bankruptcy-related claims by and against lehman entities in the united states and the u.k. we have claims against lehman entities in bankruptcy proceedings in the u.s. and the u.k. we also have amounts that we owe to lehman entities. these claims and amounts owed arise from the resolution of transactions that existed at the time the lehman entities entered bankruptcy, including foreign exchange transactions, securities lending arrangements and repurchase agreements. in the aggregate, the amounts that we believe we owe lehman entities, as reflected in our submissions in the bankruptcy proceedings, are less than our estimate of the realizable value of the claims we have asserted against lehman entities. however, we may recognize gains and losses in different fiscal periods depending in part on the timing and sequence of the resolution of the claims by us and against us in the different proceedings. in addition, the process for resolving these claims and obligations is complex and may continue for some time. we do not know whether the bankruptcy courts and administrators will accept or challenge our claims; question positions we have taken as to our contractual rights and obligations; question any of the valuations or other calculations that we have used in preparing such claims; or seek amounts from us greater than that which we believe to be due. for example, in connection with the resolution of our obligations pursuant to the repurchase agreements between our customers in the u.s. and a lehman entity, we indemnified our customers against loss and assumed our customers rights with respect to collateral consisting of interests in commercial real estate loans. for purposes of our claim in the bankruptcy court, we valued this collateral at our estimate of its liquidation value following the lehman bankruptcy; however, when we took possession of this collateral and recorded it in our consolidated balance sheet, we valued the collateral based upon our estimate of its fair value in accordance with gaap, which fair value was significantly greater than its liquidation value. this difference in valuation, among other factors, could result in the bankruptcy court assigning a lesser value to our claim or rejecting our claim entirely. similarly, 9 table of contents certain of our customers had entered into securities lending arrangements and/or repurchase agreements with lehman u.k. affiliate. in accordance with the terms of our lending program and repurchase agreement product, we have indemnified those customers against loss in connection with the resolution of these arrangements, and sold or taken possession of the related collateral, which included asset-backed securities. for purposes of the resolution of securities lending arrangements and repurchase agreements in the u.k. in connection with the bankruptcy proceedings, we valued asset-backed securities at their assumed liquidation values, in each case reflecting the absence of an active trading market for these securities following the bankruptcy of lehman. we subsequently recorded these assets in our consolidated balance sheet at a significantly greater value, based upon relevant market conditions and our assessment of their fair value in accordance with gaap at that time. as a result of these valuation decisions, we determined that there was a shortfall in collateral supporting repurchase agreements and applied excess collateral supporting lehman obligations under securities lending arrangements against lehman obligations under the repurchase agreements. the administrator in the u.k. bankruptcy proceedings may challenge any or all of the positions that we have taken, including our valuation of the collateral and the application of excess collateral supporting lehman obligations under the securities lending arrangements against lehman unsecured obligations under the repurchase agreements. given the uncertainty in the process and the potential for a court or administrator to challenge the amounts that we believe to be owed by us or due to us, it is possible that our obligations, net of recoveries, to lehman entities may be substantial, with the result that our net payment obligations could be potentially as much as several hundred million dollars. if all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our investment securities portfolio on our consolidated balance sheet were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely affected. during 2008 and 2009, rating agencies imposed an increasing number of downgrades and credit watches on the securities in our investment securities portfolio, which contributed to the decline in fair values. any continued increase in downgrades and credit watches may contribute to a further decline in the fair values of these securities. further, the measurement of the fair value of these securities, as well as our other financial assets, involves significant judgment due to the complexity of the factors contributing to the measurement. market volatility makes measurement of the fair value of our investment portfolio even more difficult and subjective. more generally, as market conditions continue to be volatile we cannot provide assurance that the amount of the unrealized losses will not increase. to the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in these portfolios is determined to be other than temporary, and the loss is related to credit factors, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and our capital ratios could be adversely affected. if any such charge is significant, a rating agency might downgrade our credit rating or put us on credit watch. even if we do not determine that the unrealized losses associated with these portfolios require an impairment charge, increases in these unrealized losses adversely affect our tangible common equity ratio, which may adversely affect credit rating agency and investor sentiment toward us. this negative perception also may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. further information with respect to unrealized losses on the securities in our investment portfolio is provided in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8, and information with respect to the financial assets and liabilities which we carry at fair value on a recurring basis is provided in the critical accounting estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included under item 7, and in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, included under item 8. we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms, and which may make future business acquisitions or dispositions difficult. as a result of continued disruption in the global financial markets or other developments having an adverse effect on our capital ratios, we may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or for 10 table of contents other purposes. however, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. accordingly, we cannot be sure of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. additionally, our ability to make acquisitions in order to achieve greater economies of scale or to expand our product offerings is dependent upon our financial resources and our ability to access the capital markets. in addition, our ability to dispose of businesses that no longer fit our business model may be difficult if attractive financing or capital is not available to prospective buyers. due to company-specific issues or a lack of liquidity in the capital markets, our ability to expand through acquisitions or to dispose of businesses that no longer are strategic to us may be adversely affected. our business activities expose us to liquidity and interest-rate risk. in our business activities, we assume liquidity and interest-rate risk in our investment portfolio of longer-and intermediate-term assets, which is funded in large part by our customer deposit base. similarly, as a result of the may 2009 consolidation of the asset-backed commercial paper conduits that we administer, we fund the portfolio of intermediate term assets held by the conduits through our customer deposit base, through the conduits issuance of commercial paper or through draw-downs of other short-term sources of liquidity. in addition, we may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or where the customers participating in these products have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. these business activities include, among others, securities finance collateral pools, money market and other short-term investment funds and liquidity facilities utilized in connection with municipal bond programs. our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our customers incur substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent. our management of collective investment pools on behalf of customers exposes us to reputational risk and, in some cases, operational losses. the incurrence by our customers of substantial losses in these pools, particularly in money market funds (where there is a general market expectation that net asset value will not drop below $1.00 per share), in situations where we make distributions in-kind to satisfy redemption requests or in circumstances where one of our investment strategies significantly underperforms the market or our competitors products, could result in significant harm to our reputation and significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. in some very limited circumstances, and consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we may compensate investment pools for all or a portion of the pool losses even though we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so. because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple investment pools to achieve scale, we face the risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in the aggregate. while it is currently not our intention, any decision by us to provide financial support to our investment pools would potentially result in the recognition of significant losses and could in certain situations require us to consolidate the investment pools onto our consolidated balance sheet. a failure or inability to provide such support could damage our reputation among current and prospective customers. any termination by a third-party guarantor of its guarantee could, if we were unable to replace the guarantee, adversely affect our business or result in litigation. our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. from time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. we may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. in any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. 11 table of contents in the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. these may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. in regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending matter or, if determined adversely to us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. the resolution of certain pending legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. further information with respect to the foregoing and our other ongoing litigation matters is provided in legal proceedings included under item 3. we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, with respect to sub-custody and prime broker arrangements we had with lehman entities. various lehman entities that served as sub-custodian or prime broker for some of our customers or funds entered insolvency proceedings in september 2008. estimating the actual amount or timing of any recovery on our customers and funds claims against any of these lehman entities is currently not possible. when these insolvency proceedings were commenced, cash and securities attributable to our custody customers, having approximately $325 million in net asset value at september 15, 2008, was held by or through lehman entities. while the appointment of these lehman entities had been made at our customer direction and we believe that we carried out our responsibilities with respect to our customers, our custody customers may nevertheless seek to recover from us any losses they incur as a result of the lehman insolvency proceedings. in the case of common trust funds managed by us, in our capacity as manager and trustee, we had appointed lehman as prime broker for four of these funds, which at september 15, 2008 (the date two of the lehman entities involved entered insolvency proceedings) had cash and securities with net asset values of approximately $312 million held by or though lehman entities. the investors in these funds have commenced or threatened litigation against us, and in one case have obtained a judgment against us. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these proceedings, and an adverse resolution could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the fiscal period or periods in which resolved. see legal proceedings included under item 3. we face litigation and potential additional governmental inquiries in connection with our provision of foreign exchange services to custody customers. in october 2009, the attorney general of the state of california commenced an action against state street bank under the california false claims act and california business and professional code relating to foreign exchange services state street bank provides to california state pension plans. the california attorney general asserts that the pricing of certain foreign exchange transactions for these pension plans was not consistent with the terms of the applicable custody contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, state street bank made false claims and engaged in unfair competition. the attorney general asserts actual damages of $56 million for periods from 2001 to 2007 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. we provide custody and foreign exchange services to government pension plans in other jurisdictions and attorney generals from a number of these other jurisdictions, as well as the u.s. attorney general office, have requested information in connection with informal inquiries into our foreign exchange pricing. if additional governmental proceedings of this nature were to be commenced, such actions could have a material impact on our reputation and on our future revenues. while no other customers have commenced legal proceedings, the services we offer to the state of california are also offered to a broad range of custody clients in the u.s. and internationally. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceeding in california or other proceedings that might be commenced against us by any other attorneys general or customers, and the resolution of any such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our future consolidated results of operations. in light of the 12 table of contents action commenced by the california attorney general, we are providing customers with greater transparency into the pricing of this product and other alternatives offered by us for addressing their foreign exchange requirements. although we believe such disclosures will address customer interests for increased transparency, over time such action may result in pressure on our pricing of this product or result in clients electing other foreign exchange execution options, which would have an adverse impact on the revenue from, and profitability of, this product for us. we may be exposed to customer claims, financial loss, reputational damage and regulatory scrutiny as a result of transacting purchases and redemptions relating to the unregistered cash collateral pools underlying our securities lending program at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit rather than a lower net asset value based upon market value of the underlying portfolios. a portion of the cash collateral received by customers under our securities lending program is invested in cash collateral pools that we manage. interests in these cash collateral pools are held by unaffiliated customers and by registered and unregistered investment funds that we manage. our cash collateral pools that are money market funds registered under the investment company act of 1940 are required to maintain, and have maintained, a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. the remainder of our cash collateral pools are collective investment funds that are not required to be registered under the investment company act. these unregistered cash collateral pools seek, but are not required, to maintain, and transact purchases and redemptions at, a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. our securities lending operations consist of two components; a direct lending program for third-party investment managers and asset owners, the collateral pools for which we refer to as direct lending collateral pools; and investment funds with a broad range of investment objectives that are managed by ssga and engage in securities lending, which we refer to as ssga lending funds. the following table shows the aggregate net asset values of the unregistered direct lending collateral pools and the aggregate net asset value of the unregistered collateral pools underlying the ssga lending funds, in each case based on a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. (in billions) december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 december 31, 2007 (1) direct lending collateral pools $ 85 $ 85 $ 150 collateral pools underlying ssga lending funds 24 31 44 (1) certain of the ssga lending funds were participants in the direct lending collateral pools until october 2008. the direct lending collateral pool balances at december 31, 2007 related to ssga lending funds have been included within the ssga lending fund balances and excluded from the direct lending collateral pool balances presented above. 13 table of contents we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, as a result of continuing to transact based upon a consistent $1.00 per unit net asset value. both the direct lending collateral pools and the collateral pools underlying the ssga lending funds have continued to transact purchases and redemptions at a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit even though the market value of the unregistered cash collateral pools portfolio holdings, determined using pricing from third-party pricing sources, has been below $1.00 per unit. this difference between the transaction value used for purchase and redemption activity and the market value of the collateral pool assets arose, depending upon the collateral pool, at various points since the commencement of the financial crisis in mid-2007 and has persisted throughout 2008 and 2009. the following table sets forth the range of net asset values per unit and weighted-average net asset values per unit based upon the market value of our unregistered cash collateral pools underlying the direct lending program and ssga lending funds as of december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 december 31, 2007 range weighted average range weighted average range weighted average direct lending collateral pools $0.93 to $1.00 $0.986 $0.92 to $1.00 $0.941 $0.99 to $1.00 $0.993 collateral pools underlying ssga lending funds $0.97 to $0.99 $0.981 $0.91 to $0.95 $0.932 $0.99 to $1.00 $0.991 we believe that our practice of continuing to effect purchases and redemptions at $1.00 per unit in the unregistered cash collateral pools, notwithstanding that the underlying portfolios have a market value of less than $1.00 per unit, is in compliance with the terms of our unregistered cash collateral pools and in the best interests of participants in the direct lending program and the ssga lending funds. we have continued this practice for a number of reasons, including the fact that none of the securities in the cash collateral pools is currently in default or considered to be materially impaired, and that there are restrictions on withdrawals from the collective investment funds. although the market value of the assets in the collateral pools has improved during 2009, a portion of these assets are floating rate instruments with several years of remaining maturity; consequently, the rate of valuation improvement is likely to slow in 2010 or the market value may decline again as a result of changes in market sentiment or in the credit quality of such instruments. however, as described below, if we continue to transact purchases and redemptions from the unregistered cash collateral pools based upon a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit and the liquid assets of these pools turn out to be insufficient to support redemption activity at such value, or the pools suffer material credit losses on their underlying portfolio holdings, investors in the direct lending program and/or the ssga lending funds may seek to hold us responsible for any shortfall due to prior redemptions at a value above the market value of the underlying portfolio or as a result of any such portfolio defaults. we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, as a result of our imposition of restrictions on redemptions from, and our management of, the direct lending program. beginning in october 2008, following the increased market disruption resulting from the bankruptcy of lehman, we began to require, and continue to require, that direct participants in the collateral pools who wish to redeem their interests in the pools, other than in connection with the ordinary course operation of the securities lending program, to accept redemption proceeds in the form of in-kind distributions. while the redemption restrictions were imposed to protect the interest of all participants in the direct lending program (which include erisa plans, governmental retirement plans, mutual funds and other institutional asset owners), the prolonged imposition of these restrictions could materially and adversely affect the relationship with our lending customers and the financial results of our direct lending operation. despite these redemption restrictions, one significant participant in the direct lending program redeemed a substantial portion of its interest in the collateral pools in a manner that we determined not to be consistent with the ordinary course of operations of the securities lending program. after attempts to resolve the dispute with the redeeming participant and have them restore short-term liquidity to the collateral pool, we took action, as trustee, that in effect resulted in an in-kind redemption of the participant remaining interest in the collateral pool in a manner that caused such in-kind redemption and the 14 table of contents prior cash redemptions, taken as a whole, to be completed on substantially the same basis as if the participant had initially requested an in-kind redemption of its entire interest in the collateral pool. the redeeming participant has commenced a legal action against us for damages that it alleges it incurred as a result of this redemption. an adverse judgment in such case could have an adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which such judgment is issued. in addition to the actions relating to the redeeming participant, we are in discussions with a limited number of securities lending customers in the u.k. who have questioned whether our management of their participation in our securities lending program was consistent with the obligations owed by us to them. at this time, we do not know if we will enter into a settlement with respect to such claims or if the amount of any settlement would be less than or greater than the reserve established. we may incur losses which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, as a result of our valuation of units of the ssga lending funds and our imposition of restrictions on redemptions. a broad range of ssga lending funds participate in our securities lending program and as a result hold interests in certain of the unregistered cash collateral pools. the lending funds continue to purchase and redeem units of the lending funds at prices that assign a value of $1.00 to units of the collateral pools held by such funds. if it was determined that the historical or prospective transaction valuation for purchase or redemption of units of the lending funds should reflect a value of the units of the collateral pools of less than $1.00, lending fund investors may claim that they overpaid for their investment, or that investors who redeemed their units at prices that reflect a valuation of units of the collateral pools of $1.00 were overcompensated, and seek to hold us responsible for their alleged investment loss. for financial reporting purposes, the lending funds financial statements for the periods ended december 31, 2008 and 2009 reflected or will reflect net asset values for the lending funds based upon a valuation of the units of the collateral pools at market value rather than at the $1.00 transaction value. if we continue to transact purchases and redemptions of units of the lending funds based upon the $1.00 transaction value of the collateral pools rather than their financial statement reported value, such potential exposure would likely increase over time. since the percentage of a lending fund assets on loan varies based on the fund investment focus and with changes in market demand, the potential impact of this issue on the net asset value of the lending fund will vary significantly, and in some cases may be material. in an effort to provide investors in the ssga lending funds equal access to liquidity in the collateral pools and limit the need to sell portfolio securities into an illiquid market in order to meet redemption requests, in march 2009, we established restrictions on the percentage of an investor interest in a lending fund that may be redeemed in any month. these restrictions superseded limitations on redemption other than in kind or that were to an extent consistent with the customers ordinary course of their participation in the lending funds. the restrictions on redemptions currently do not apply to participant level activity in defined contribution plans. investors in the lending funds have objected to, and may claim to have been harmed by, such limitations on liquidity of their investment, notwithstanding our right to implement such restrictions under the governing documents for such funds. as a result, participants in our lending funds may seek to be compensated for any loss they incurred or allege to have incurred resulting from either the valuation of the units of the lending funds or restrictions on the liquidity of such units. we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, as a result of claims by investors in the direct lending program and ssga lending funds and an inquiry by the sec. the sec is conducting an informal inquiry into the management of our securities lending program and disclosures made to direct lending participants and participants in the ssga lending funds, in particular as to the adequacy of our disclosures regarding the collateral pools during periods when those pools had a market value of less than $1.00. while we are cooperating with such inquiry, we cannot determine whether the staff of the sec will conclude that our disclosures or conduct of the program form the basis of a potential formal proceeding seeking damages or other remedies. in addition to the action with the redeeming participant in the direct lending program referred to above, participants in certain of the lending funds have commenced putative class actions on behalf of all investors in the lending funds that are benefit plans subject to the employee retirement income 15 table of contents security act. the class actions allege, among other things, failure to exercise prudence in the management of the collateral pools and breach of the governing instruments in connection with our imposition of restrictions on redemptions and seek both damages and injunctive relief. a determination by the sec or any other regulatory authority to commence an enforcement proceeding with regard to our securities lending operations or ssga lending funds, or an adverse outcome in the class action or any future proceedings, could have a material adverse impact upon our securities lending operations or the operations of ssga or upon our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our consolidated financial condition, including our capital ratios, our consolidated results of operations and our business prospects could be harmed. liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated balance sheet and to our ability to service our customer base. we generally use our sources of funds to: extend credit to our customers in connection with our custody business; meet demands for return of funds on deposit by customers; and manage the pool of intermediate- and longer-term assets that are included in the investment securities on our consolidated balance sheet. because the demand for credit by our customers is difficult to forecast and control, and may be at its peak at times of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment portfolio is significantly longer than the contractual maturity of our deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent upon, access to various sources of short-term funding. in managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is customer deposits, which are predominantly transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities and the perception of safety of those deposits or short-term obligations relative to alternative short-term investments available to our customers, including in the capital markets. for example, the contraction in the number of counterparties for which we have a favorable credit assessment as a result of ongoing market disruptions has made it difficult to invest our available liquidity, which has adversely affected the rate of return that we earned on these assets, which could harm our ability to attract customer deposits. the availability and cost of credit in short-term markets is highly dependent upon the markets perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. our efforts to monitor and manage our liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven reductions in liquidity. in such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in the realization of a loss in our consolidated statement of income. any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm. various independent rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. we anticipate that the rating agencies will review our ratings regularly based on our consolidated results of operations and developments in our businesses. our credit rating was downgraded by each of the principal rating agencies during the first quarter of 2009. a further downgrade or a significant reduction in our capital ratios might adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to maintain our current ratings. the current market environment and our 16 table of contents exposure to other financial institution counterparties increases the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. a failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in certain products, may be negatively perceived by our customers or counterparties or may have other adverse reputational effects. additionally, our counterparties, as well as our customers, rely upon our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. if we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including due to market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or consolidated results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may become less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us, our customers may reduce or place limits upon the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers and our prospective customers may select other service providers. the risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is increased in the current market environment, where the consolidation of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, is resulting in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. if our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our customers, on our or our customers behalf, will be materially compromised. if our customers reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide them, our net interest revenues will decrease accordingly. our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. our relationship with many of our customers is predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet customer expectations and other issues with respect to one or more of our businesses could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain customers or our sources of funding for the same or other businesses. preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and customer expectations. if any of these developments has a material effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. the illiquidity and volatility of global fixed-income and equity markets has affected our ability to effectively and profitably manage assets on behalf of customers and may make our products less attractive to customers. we manage assets on behalf of customers in several forms, including in collective investment pools, including money market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term investment funds. in addition to the impact on the market value of customer portfolios, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected our ability to manage customer inflows and outflows from our pooled investment vehicles. within our asset management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds that generally offer our customers the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally daily or monthly. this feature requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably anticipated liquidity requirements of our customers. during the market disruption that accelerated following the bankruptcy of lehman, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short- and long-term fixed-income securities, has declined dramatically, and providing liquidity to meet all customer demands in these investment pools without adversely affecting the return to non-withdrawing customers has become more difficult. for customers that invest directly or indirectly in certain of the collateral pools and seek to terminate participation in lending programs, we have required, in accordance with the applicable customer arrangements, that these withdrawals from the collateral pools take the form of partial in-kind distributions of securities, and in the case of ssga funds that engage in securities lending, we have implemented limitations on the portion of an investor interest in such fund that may be withdrawn during 17 table of contents any month, although such limitations do not apply to participant directed activity in defined contribution plans. if higher than normal demands for liquidity from our customers were to return post-lehman-bankruptcy levels or increase, it could become more difficult to manage the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools and, as a result, we may elect to support the liquidity of these pools. if liquidity in the fixed-income markets were to deteriorate further or remain disrupted for a prolonged period, our relationships with our customers may be adversely affected, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to consolidate the investment pools, levels of redemption activity could increase and our consolidated results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected. in addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and it may then be difficult to sell the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, if at all. alternatively, although we have no such obligations or arrangements currently in place, we have in the past, and may in the future, guarantee liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a fund, and a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own liquidity and consolidated financial condition. because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity demands of our customers. the extreme volatility in the equity markets has led to potential for the return on passive and quantitative products deviating from their target return. the temporary closures of securities exchanges in certain markets create a risk that customer redemptions in pooled investment vehicles may result in significant tracking error and underperformance relative to stated benchmarks. any failure of the pools to meet redemption requests or to underperform relative to similar products offered by our competitors could harm our business and our reputation. for further information regarding risks related to our investment pools, please refer to the risk factor titled our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our customers incur substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent on page 11. acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestiture pose risks for our business. as part of our business strategy, we acquire complementary businesses and technologies, enter into strategic alliances and divest portions of our business. during 2009, we announced definitive agreements to acquire the global custody, depository banking, correspondent banking and fund administration business of intesa sanpaolo, or intesa, and the acquisition of mourant international finance administration, or mifa, for cash. we undertake transactions such as these to, among other reasons, expand our geographic footprint, access new customers, technologies or services, develop closer relationships with our business partners, efficiently deploy capital or to leverage cost savings or other financial opportunities. we may not achieve the expected benefits of these transactions, which could result in increased costs, lowered revenues, ineffective deployment of capital and diminished competitive position or reputation. these transactions also involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, regulatory, managerial and operational challenges, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. for example, the businesses that we acquire or our strategic alliances may underperform relative to the price paid or the resources committed by us, or we may not achieve anticipated cost savings or otherwise be adversely affected by acquisition-related charges. further, past acquisitions have resulted, and upon closing transactions such as the purchase of intesa and mifa will result, in the recording of goodwill and other significant intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet. we may be required to record impairment in our consolidated statement of income in future periods if we do not realize the value of these assets. through our acquisitions we may also assume unknown or undisclosed liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. while in most of our transactions we seek to mitigate these risks through, among other things, adequate due diligence and indemnification provisions, we cannot be certain that the indemnification provisions and other risk mitigants we put in place will be sufficient. 18 table of contents various regulatory approvals or consents are generally required prior to closing or acquisitions and, which may include approvals of the federal reserve and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms that materially affect the terms of the transaction or our ability to capture some of the opportunities presented by the transaction. any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction. some acquisitions we announce may not be completed, if we do not receive the required regulatory approvals or if other closing conditions are not satisfied. the integration of our acquisitions results in risks to our business and other uncertainties. the integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. integration activities are complicated and time consuming. we may not be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings, as anticipated, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related revenue growth or cost savings. we also face the risk of being unable to retain the customer bases of acquired companies or unable to cross-sell our products and services to an acquired business customers. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in customer dissatisfaction and defection. customers of asset servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these customers or a significant reduction in revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, could adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions. with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. the markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. we have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker-dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. ongoing consolidation within the financial services industry could pose challenges in the markets we serve, including potentially increased downward pricing pressure across our businesses. many of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. these competitors are in some instances significant customers, and the retention of these customers involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our customer after a short notice period. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, customer pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. if we fail to attract new customers and cross-sell additional products and services to our existing customers, our prospects for growth may be harmed. our strategy for growth depends upon both attracting new customers and cross-selling additional products and services to our existing customer base. to the extent that we are not able to achieve these goals, we may not be able to meet our financial goals. in addition, our proactive cross-selling of multiple products and services to our customers can exacerbate the negative financial effects associated with the risk of loss of any one customer. 19 table of contents development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. the introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and resources. substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our customers and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely manner at competitive prices. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our customers. failure to manage successfully these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, as well as on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. it may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. we may be unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively, which may allow competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. to the extent that we are not able to protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, employees with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others advantage. in addition, we may infringe upon claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. we may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. the intellectual property of an acquired business may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. however, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent upon licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated. our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates. our financial performance could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates as they affect our asset and liability management activities. the levels of interest rates in global markets, changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, affect our net interest revenue. our ability to anticipate these changes or to hedge the related exposures on and off our consolidated balance sheet can significantly influence the success of our asset and liability management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. the impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative durations of assets and liabilities in accordance with their relevant currencies. in general, sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and/or retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of uncertainty concerning evolving compensation restrictions applicable, or which may become applicable, to banks (and potentially not applicable to other financial services firms). the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, their years of industry experience and, in some cases, the 20 table of contents difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely affect our customers perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates. long-term contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk. we enter into long-term contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing services, primarily for conversions, to customers, including services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. these arrangements generally set forth our fee schedule for the term of the contract and, absent a change in service requirements, do not permit us to re-price the contract for changes in our costs or for market pricing. the long-term contracts for these relationships require, in some cases, considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services, efficiently assume our contractual responsibilities in a timely manner and our ability to control our costs and maintain the relationship with the customer for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. our estimate of the profitability of these arrangements can be adversely affected by declines in the assets under the customers management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or customer specific issues. in addition, the profitability of these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross sell additional services to these customers, and we may be unable to do so. in addition, performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. our failure to meet specified service levels may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the customer. if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see our revenue decline. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. we may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. we have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. while we currently believe that our risk management process is effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the risks in our various businesses. in addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. we may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our businesses or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. if our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or our businesses or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. operational risk is inherent in all of our business activities. as a leading provider of services to institutional investors, we provide a broad array of services, including research, investment management, trading services and investment servicing, that give rise to operational risk. in addition, these services generate a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. we face the risk that the policies, procedures and systems we have established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, be inadequate or become outdated. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or monitoring mechanisms or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our future consolidated results of operations. operational errors that result in us remitting funds to a failing or 21 table of contents bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses. we may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. in addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. we depend on information technology, and any failures of our information technology systems could result in significant costs and reputational damage. our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure to record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets. any interruptions, delays or breakdowns of this infrastructure could result in significant costs to us and damage to our reputation. cost shifting to foreign jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings. we actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations, including by forming joint ventures and by establishing operations in lower cost areas, such as poland, india and china, and outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions. this effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these business operations. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. during periods of transition, greater operational risk and customer concern exist regarding the continuity of a high level of service delivery. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be impacted by regulatory and customer acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects. our businesses and relationships with customers are dependent upon our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our customers trade secrets and confidential information (including customer transactional data and personal data about our employees, our customers and our customers customers). unauthorized access to such information may occur, resulting in theft, loss or other misappropriation. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive positions, our relationships with our customers and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries and enforcement, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs. we face extensive and changing government regulation, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance. most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the customers to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulatory and supervisory oversight, both in the u.s. and outside the u.s. in connection with our global operations. the regulations affect, among other things, the scope of our activities and customer services, our capital structure and our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy and the manner in which we market our services. the 22 table of contents disruption of the financial markets in 2008 and 2009 and resulting governmental support of, and loss of confidence in, financial institutions has resulted in demand for increased and more extensive regulation of our business both in the u.s. and internationally. congress is currently considering legislation that may have a significant impact on the regulatory structure for the financial markets, special taxes on financial institutions and increased deposit assessments by the fdic, and proposals by the white house have included the potential separation of proprietary trading and the management of hedge and other alternative asset funds from banking institutions or restrictions on the flexibility of financial institutions with respect to the compensation of their employees. the proposals currently being considered by congress, depending upon their final form, could affect our business positively or adversely or may result in substantial additional costs. different countries may respond to the market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting manner, which could have the impact of increasing the cost of compliance for us. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. evolving regulations, such as the basel and other global regulatory capital frameworks, short-selling regulations and anti-money laundering regulations may impose significant compliance costs on us. the regulatory perspective, particularly that of the federal reserve board, on regulatory capital requirements may affect our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase common stock unless we can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of our regulators, that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a severely stressed market environment. in addition, the implementation of certain of the proposals with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect our regulatory capital position relative to that of our competitors. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. similarly, many of our customers are subject to significant regulatory requirements, and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers. if we cause customers to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. new accounting standards, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the financial accounting standards board or the sec, can potentially affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. these changes are difficult to predict, and can materially affect how we record and report our consolidated results of operations and financial condition and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of consolidated prior period financial statements. changes in tax laws or regulations, and challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, may adversely affect our net income, our effective tax rate and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. our businesses can be directly or indirectly affected by new tax legislation, the expiration of existing tax laws, or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. u.s. tax laws that have favorably affected the taxation of certain of our overseas operations expired at the end of 2009, and it is uncertain when and whether they will be re-enacted. in addition, recent federal government budget submissions include proposals that would have a material adverse effect on the taxation of our overseas operations. 23 table of contents in the normal course of business, we are subject to reviews by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities. these reviews may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxes due and the allocation of taxable income among tax jurisdictions. these adjustments could affect the attainment of our financial goals. the quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in imprecise risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions. we use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our businesses. as an input to our overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, operational risk, interest rate risk and business risk we face. during the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we sometimes use models to measure the value of positions for which reliable market prices are not available. we also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading activities, hedging, asset and liability management and whether to change business strategy. in all of these uses, errors in the underlying model could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences. because of our widespread usage of models, potential errors in models pose an ongoing risk to us. additionally, we may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. our measurement methodologies rely upon many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations we rely on may not continue to be relevant. consequently, the measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect those changes. while our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have inadequate capital to conduct our businesses. we face significant risks developing and implementing our future business plans and strategies. in order to maintain and grow our business, we must continuously make strategic decisions about our future business plans, including plans for entering or exiting business lines or geographic markets, plans for acquiring or disposing of businesses and plans to build new systems and other infrastructure. our business, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by incorrect business and strategic decisions or improper implementation of our decisions. if the business decisions that we make prove erroneous, we may fail to be responsive to industry changes or customer demands. moreover, the implementation of our decisions may involve significant capital outlays, often far in advance of when we expect to derive any related revenues, and therefore it may be difficult to alter or abandon plans without incurring significant loss. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth in the market risk section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included under item 7, is incorporated by reference herein. 80 table of contentsrisk factors this form 10-k, as well as other reports filed by us under the securities exchange act of 1934 or registration statements filed by us under the securities act of 1933, contain statements (including statements in management discussion and analysis included under item 7) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of u.s. securities laws, including statements about industry trends, management expectations about our financial performance, market growth, acquisitions and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities and earnings, management confidence in our strategies and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. forward-looking statements are often identified by such forward-looking terminology as expect, look, believe, anticipate, estimate, forecast, seek, may, will, trend, target and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of future results. management expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to state street and its subsidiaries, including state street bank. factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based include, but are not limited to: the manner in which the federal reserve implements the dodd-frank act, including any changes to our minimum regulatory capital ratios; changes to our business model, or how we provide services, required by our compliance with the dodd-frank act, and similar non-u.s. rules and regulations; required regulatory capital ratios under basel ii and basel iii, in each case as fully implemented by state street and state street bank (and in the case of basel iii, when finally adopted by the federal reserve), which may result in the need for substantial additional capital or increased levels of liquidity in the future; changes in law or regulation that may adversely affect our, our clients or our counterparties business activities and the products or services that we sell, including additional or increased taxes or assessments thereon, capital adequacy requirements and changes that expose us to risks related to compliance; financial market disruptions and the economic recession, whether in the u.s. or internationally; the liquidity of the u.s. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities, and the liquidity requirements of our clients; increases in the volatility of, or declines in the levels of, our net interest revenue, changes in the composition of the assets on our consolidated balance sheet and the possibility that we may be required to change the manner in which we fund those assets; the financial strength and continuing viability of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business and to which we have investment, credit or financial exposure; the credit quality, credit agency ratings, and fair values of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss in our consolidated statement of income; delays or difficulties in the execution of our previously announced global multi-year program designed to enhance our operating model, which could lead to changes in our estimates of the charges, expenses or savings associated with the planned program, resulting in increased volatility of our earnings; 7 table of contents the maintenance of credit agency ratings for our debt and depository obligations as well as the level of credibility of credit agency ratings; the risks that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will take longer than anticipated, that expected synergies will not be achieved or unexpected disynergies will be experienced, that client and deposit retention goals will not be met, that other regulatory or operational challenges will be experienced and that disruptions from the transaction will harm relationships with clients, employees or regulators; the ability to complete acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures, including the ability to obtain regulatory approvals, the ability to arrange financing as required and the ability to satisfy closing conditions; the performance of and demand for the products and services we offer, including the level and timing of redemptions and withdrawals from our collateral pools and other collective investment products; the possibility of our clients incurring substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent, and the possibility of significant reductions in the valuation of assets; our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding; potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to the effects of consolidation, and perceptions of state street as a suitable service provider or counterparty; the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; our ability to measure the fair value of the investment securities on our consolidated balance sheet; the results of litigation, government investigations and similar disputes or proceedings; our ability to control operating risks, information technology systems risks and outsourcing risks, and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will prove insufficient, fail or be circumvented; adverse publicity or other reputational harm; our ability to grow revenue, attract and/or retain and compensate highly skilled people, control expenses and attract the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements; the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk; changes in accounting standards and practices; and changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that affect the amount of taxes due. therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this form 10-k or disclosed in our other sec filings. forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the time this form 10-k is filed with the sec. we undertake no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k to reflect events after the time it is filed with the sec. the factors discussed above are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. we cannot anticipate all developments that may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis upon which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties 8 table of contents disclosed in our sec filings, including our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934, in particular our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, or registration statements filed under the securities act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the sec website at www.sec.gov or on our website at www.statestreet.com . the following is a discussion of risk factors applicable to state street. the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, many of whom are major financial institutions, and our assumption of significant credit and counterparty risk, could expose us to loss. the financial markets are characterized by extensive interdependencies among financial institutions, including banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds and insurance companies. as a result of these interdependencies, we and many of our clients have concentrated counterparty exposure to other financial institutions, particularly large and complex institutions. although we have procedures for monitoring both individual and aggregate counterparty risk, like other large financial institutions, the nature of our business is such that large individual and aggregate counterparty exposure is inherent in our business as our focus is on large institutional investors and their businesses. from time to time, we assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or guarantor level. such concentrations may be material and can from time to time exceed 10% of our consolidated total shareholders equity. our material counterparty exposures change daily, and the counterparties to which our risk exposure exceeds 10% of our consolidated total shareholders equity are also variable during any reported period; however, our largest exposures tend to be to other financial institutions. further, exposure to such counterparties generally is the result of our role as agent to numerous entities affiliated with a single counterparty. these affiliated entities and our risk exposures to them also vary. concentration of counterparty exposure presents significant risks to us and to our clients because the failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties (or in some cases of our clients counterparties) has the potential to expose us to risk of loss. the instability of the financial markets since 2007 has resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, and as a result we may be exposed to increased counterparty risks, both in our role as principal and in our capacity as agent for our clients. changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions can occur rapidly, are often based upon a variety of factors and are difficult to predict. in addition, as u.s. and non-u.s. governments have addressed the financial crisis in an evolving manner, the criteria for and manner of governmental support of financial institutions and other economically important sectors remain uncertain. if a significant individual counterparty defaults on an obligation to us, we could incur financial losses that materially adversely affect our businesses and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. a counterparty default can also have adverse effects on, and financially weaken, other of our counterparties, which could also materially adversely affect our businesses and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. the degree of client demand for short-term credit also tends to increase during periods of market turbulence, exposing us to further counterparty-related risks. for example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may engage in significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was not anticipated by the fund manager. our relationship with our clients, the nature of the settlement process and our systems may result in the extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. for some types of clients, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if the client experiences credit difficulties. in addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. we are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties that are affiliated entities and may not be able in all circumstances to net exposures to the same legal entity across multiple products. as a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to one of its affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured and, when our exposure is secured, the realizable market value of the collateral may have declined by the time we exercise rights against that collateral. this risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily impaired market. 9 table of contents in addition, our clients often purchase securities or other financial instruments from a financial counterparty, including broker/dealers, under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. under these arrangements, the counterparty is obligated to repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the client at the same price at some point in the future. the anticipated value of the collateral is intended to exceed the counterparty repayment obligation. in many cases, we agree to indemnify our clients from any loss that would arise upon a default by the counterparty if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or other financial assets are less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the client counterparty. in those instances, we, rather than our client, are exposed to the risks associated with counterparty default and collateral value. we also engage in certain off-balance sheet activities that involve risks. for example, we provide benefit responsive contracts, known as wraps, to defined contribution plans that offer a stable value option to their participants. during the financial crisis, the book value of obligations under many of these contracts exceeded the market value of the underlying portfolio holdings. concerns regarding the portfolio of investments protected by such contracts, or regarding the investment manager overseeing such an investment option, may result in redemption demands from stable value products covered by benefit responsive contracts at a time when the portfolio market value is less than its book value, potentially exposing us to risk of loss. similarly, we provide credit facilities in connection with the remarketing of municipal obligations, potentially exposing us to credit exposure to the municipalities issuing such bonds and to increased liquidity demands. in the current economic environment, where municipal credits are subject to increased investor concern, the risks associated with such businesses increase. further, our off-balance sheet activities also include indemnified securities financing obligations, where we indemnify our clients against losses they incur in connection with the failure of borrowers under our program to return securities on loan. finally, certain of our clients reinvest cash collateral in repurchase arrangements, and we may indemnify such clients against counterparty default. although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our global treasury group, our currency and other trading activities, our securities lending business and our investment management business. given the limited number of strong counterparties in the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our clients counterparty credit risk. the current consolidation of financial service firms that began in 2008, and the failures of other financial institutions, have increased the concentration of our counterparty risk. our business involves significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial performance. the financial markets remain concerned about the ability of certain european countries, particularly greece, ireland and portugal, but also others such as spain and italy, to finance their deficits and service growing debt burdens amidst difficult economic conditions. this loss of confidence has led to rescue measures for greece and ireland by euro-zone countries and the international monetary fund. the actions required to be taken by those countries as a condition to rescue packages, and by other countries to mitigate similar developments in their economies, have resulted in increased political discord within and among euro-zone countries. the interdependencies among european economies and financial institutions have also exacerbated concern regarding the stability of european financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. given the scope of our european operations, clients and counterparties, persistent disruptions in the european financial markets, the attempt of a country to abandon the euro, the failure of a significant european financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the euro, could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial performance. our investment portfolio and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in various interest, market and credit risks. our investment portfolio represented approximately 59% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2010, and the interest revenue associated with our investment portfolio represented approximately 31% of our consolidated total gross revenue for the year ended december 31, 2010. as such, our consolidated 10 table of contents results of operations and financial condition are materially exposed to the risks associated with our investment portfolio, including, without limitation, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit performance, credit ratings, access to liquidity, mark-to-market valuations and our ability to reinvest repayments of principal with respect to portfolio securities. relative to many other major financial institutions, investment securities represent a greater percentage of our consolidated balance sheet and commercial loans represent a smaller percentage. our investment portfolio continues to have significant concentrations in certain classes of securities, including non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities and securities with concentrated exposure to consumers. these classes and types of securities experienced significant liquidity, valuation and credit quality deterioration during the financial disruption that began in mid-2007. we also have material holdings of non-u.s. mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities with exposures to european countries whose sovereign debt markets have, to varying degrees, been under stress over the past year and may continue to experience stress in the future. for further information, see the risk factor above titled our business involves significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial performance. further, we hold a portfolio of state and municipal bonds; in view of the budget deficits that most states and many municipalities are currently incurring due to the continued depressed economic environment, the risks associated with this portfolio have increased. if market conditions similar to those experienced in 2007 and 2008 were to return, our portfolio could experience a decline in liquidity and market value, regardless of our credit view of our portfolio holdings. for example, we recorded significant non-credit losses in connection with the consolidation of our off-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper conduits in 2009 and the repositioning of our investment portfolio in 2010 with respect to these asset classes. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of our portfolio holdings could result in other-than-temporary impairment. our investment portfolio is further subject to changes in both domestic interest rates and foreign interest rates (primarily in europe) and could be negatively impacted by rising interest rates. in addition, while the securities in our investment portfolio are primarily rated aaa or aa, if a material portion of our investment portfolio were to experience rating declines below investment grade, our capital ratios under the requirements of basel ii and basel iii could be adversely affected, which risk is greater with portfolios of investment securities than with loans or holdings of treasury securities. our business activities expose us to liquidity and interest-rate risk. in our business activities, we assume liquidity and interest-rate risk in our investment portfolio of longer-and intermediate-term assets, and our net interest revenue is affected by the levels of interest rates in global markets, changes in the relationship between short-and long-term interest rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. our ability to anticipate these changes or to hedge the related on- and off-balance sheet exposures can significantly influence the success of our asset-and liability-management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. the impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative durations of assets and liabilities as well as the currencies in which they are denominated. sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads generally have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. in particular, if short-term interest rates rise, our net interest revenue is likely to decline, and any such decline could be material. in addition, we may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or where the clients participating in these products have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. these business activities include, among others, securities finance collateral pools, money market and other short-term investment funds and liquidity facilities utilized in connection with municipal bond programs. if clients demand a return of their cash or assets, particularly on limited notice, and our investment portfolio does not have the liquidity to support those demands, we could be forced to sell investment securities at unfavorable prices. 11 table of contents if we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our financial condition, including our capital ratios, our consolidated results of operations and our business prospects could be harmed. liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated balance sheet and to our ability to service our client base. we generally use our sources of funds to: extend credit to our clients in connection with our custody business; meet demands for return of funds on deposit by clients; and manage the pool of long- and intermediate-term assets that are included in investment securities on our consolidated balance sheet. because the demand for credit by our clients is difficult to forecast and control, and may be at its peak at times of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment portfolio is significantly longer than the contractual maturity of our client deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent upon, access to various sources of short-term funding. in managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is client deposits, which are predominantly transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these deposits and the perception of safety of those deposits or short-term obligations relative to alternative short-term investments available to our clients, including the capital markets. for example, the contraction in the number of counterparties for which we have a favorable credit assessment as a result of ongoing market disruptions has made it difficult for us to invest our available liquidity, which has adversely affected the rate of return that we have earned on these assets, which could harm our ability to attract client deposits. the availability and cost of credit in short-term markets is highly dependent upon the markets perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. our efforts to monitor and manage our liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven reductions in liquidity. in such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in the realization of a loss in our consolidated statement of income. the global recession and financial crisis that began in mid-2007 have adversely affected us and increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses. continued or additional disruptions in the global economy or financial markets could further adversely affect our business and financial performance. our businesses have been significantly affected by global economic conditions and their impact on financial markets. since mid-2007, global credit and other financial markets have suffered from substantial volatility, illiquidity and disruption as a result of the global recession and financial crisis. the resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, as well as the businesses of our clients and significant counterparties. these events, and the potential for continuing or additional disruptions, have also affected overall confidence in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and pricing issues within the fixed-income markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses and have had an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and our financial condition. while global economies and financial markets have shown initial signs of stabilizing, the occurrence of additional disruptions in, or a worsening of, global markets or economic conditions could adversely affect our businesses and the financial services industry in general. market disruptions can adversely affect our revenue if the value of assets under custody, administration or management decline, while the costs of providing the related services remain constant due to the fixed nature of 12 table of contents such costs. these factors can reduce our asset-based fee revenue and could adversely affect our other transaction-based revenue, such as revenues from securities finance and foreign exchange activities, and the volume of transactions that we execute for or with our clients, but the costs of providing the related services would not similarly decline. further, the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. in general, increased currency volatility tends to increase our market risk but also our foreign exchange revenue. conversely, periods of lower currency volatility tend to decrease market risk and our foreign exchange revenue. in addition, as our business grows globally and as a greater percentage of our revenue is earned in currencies other than u.s. dollars, our exposure to foreign currency volatility could affect our levels of consolidated revenue, our expenses and our consolidated results of operations, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations and our investment portfolio holdings. as our product offering within our global markets businesses expands, in part to seek to take advantage of perceived opportunities arising under various regulatory reforms and resulting market changes, our exposure to volatility in currencies and interest rates may increase, potentially resulting in greater revenue volatility in our trading businesses. we also may need to make additional investments to enhance our risk management capabilities to support these businesses, which may increase the operating expenses of such businesses or, if our risk management resources fail to keep pace with product expansion, result in increased risk of loss from our trading businesses. we face extensive and changing government regulation, including changes to capital requirements under the dodd-frank act, basel ii and basel iii, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance. most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the clients to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulatory and supervisory oversight, both in the u.s. and outside the u.s. the regulations affect, among other things, the scope of our activities and client services, our capital structure and our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy, the manner in which we market our services and our interactions with foreign regulatory agencies and officials, for example, as a result of the foreign corrupt practices act. the dodd-frank act, which became law in july 2010, will have a significant impact on the regulatory structure of the financial markets and will impose additional costs on us. it also could adversely affect certain of our business operations and competitive position, or those of our clients. the dodd-frank act, among other things, establishes a new financial stability oversight council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions, restricts proprietary trading and private fund investment activities by banking institutions, creates a new framework for the regulation of derivatives, alters the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred securities and other hybrid capital securities and revises the fdic assessment base for deposit insurance. provisions in the dodd-frank act may also restrict the flexibility of financial institutions to compensate their employees. in addition, provisions in the dodd-frank act may require changes to the existing basel ii capital rules or affect their interpretations by institutions or regulators, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with basel ii regulations, our business operations, capital structure, capital ratios or financial performance. the final effects of the dodd-frank act on our business will depend largely on the implementation of the act by regulatory bodies and the exercise of discretion by these regulatory bodies. in addition, rapid regulatory change is occurring internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of basel iii and the alternative investment fund managers directive and the potential adoption of the eu derivatives initiatives and revisions to the european collective investment fund, or ucits, directive. among current regulatory developments are proposed rules to enhance the responsibilities of custodians to their clients for asset losses. the dodd-frank act and these other international regulatory changes could limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our regulatory capital requirements and impose additional costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences, including a reduction of our credit ratings. different countries may respond to the 13 table of contents market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting manner, which could have the impact of increasing the cost of compliance for us. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, including under basel iii and the dodd-frank act, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. the regulatory perspective, particularly that of the federal reserve board, on regulatory capital requirements may affect our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase our common stock unless we can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of our regulators, that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a severely stressed market environment. in addition, the implementation of certain of the proposals with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect our regulatory capital position relative to that of our competitors. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. similarly, many of our clients are subject to significant regulatory requirements, and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. if we cause clients to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. our business may be adversely affected upon our implementation of the revised capital requirements under basel ii capital rules, basel iii and the dodd-frank act or in the event our capital structure is determined to be insufficient as a result of mandated stress testing. we are currently in the qualification period that is required to be completed prior to our full implementation of the basel ii capital rules. during the qualification period we must demonstrate that we comply with the basel ii requirements to the satisfaction of the federal reserve. during or subsequent to this qualification period, the federal reserve may determine that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the regulation and may require us to take certain actions to come into compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, capital structure, capital ratios or financial performance. in addition, regulators could change the basel ii capital rules or their interpretations as they apply to state street, potentially due to the rulemaking associated with certain provisions of the dodd-frank act, which could adversely affect us and our ability to comply with basel ii. basel iii, the dodd-frank act and the regulatory rules to be adopted for the implementation of basel iii and the dodd-frank act will result in an increase in the minimum levels of capital and liquidity that we will be required to maintain and changes in the manner in which our capital ratios are calculated. in addition, we are required by the federal reserve to conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations, and our capital structure and liquidity management are subject to periodic review and stress testing by the federal reserve, which is used by the federal reserve to evaluate the adequacy of our capital and the potential requirement to maintain capital levels in addition to regulatory minimums. banking regulators have not yet issued final rules and guidance for our implementation of the revised capital and liquidity rules under basel iii and the dodd-frank act. consequently, we cannot determine at this time the alignment of our regulatory capital and our business operations with the regulatory capital requirements to be implemented. our implementation of the new capital requirements may not be approved by the federal reserve and the federal reserve may impose capital requirements in excess of our expectations, and maintenance of high levels of liquidity may adversely affect our revenues. in the event our implementation of the new capital requirements under basel iii and the dodd-frank act or our current capital structure are determined not to conform with current and future capital requirements, 14 table of contents our ability to deploy capital in the operation of our business or our ability to distribute capital to shareholders may be constrained and our business may be adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm. various independent rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. we anticipate that the rating agencies will review our ratings regularly based on our consolidated results of operations and developments in our businesses. our credit ratings were downgraded by each of the principal rating agencies during the first quarter of 2009. a further downgrade or a significant reduction in our capital ratios might adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to maintain our current ratings. the current market environment and our exposure to other financial institution counterparties increases the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. a failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in certain products, may be negatively perceived by our clients or counterparties or may have other adverse reputational effects. additionally, our counterparties, as well as our clients, rely upon our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. if we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including the effects of market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or consolidated results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may become less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us, our clients may reduce or place limits upon the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers and our prospective clients may select other service providers. the risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is increased in the current market environment, where the consolidation of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, is resulting in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. if our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our clients, on our or our clients behalf, will be materially compromised. if our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide them, our revenues will decrease accordingly. we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. we may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings, in response to changes in regulatory capital rules or for other purposes, including to finance acquisitions. however, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. in the event of rising interest rates, disruptions in financial markets, negative perception of our business and financial strength, or other factors that would increase our cost of borrowing, we cannot be sure of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us, which could adversely affect our business and ability to implement our business plan and strategic goals, including the financing of acquisitions. our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. from time to time, our clients, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to, among other things, our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. in any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on client demand for our products and services. we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or 15 table of contents judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. in the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. these may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. in regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending matter or, if determined adversely against us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. the resolution of certain pending legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. we may incur losses, which could be material to our financial performance in the periods incurred, arising from bankruptcy-related claims by and against lehman entities in the united states and the u.k. we have claims against lehman entities in bankruptcy proceedings in the u.s. and the u.k. we also have amounts that we owe to lehman entities. these claims and amounts owed arise from the resolution of transactions that existed at the time the lehman entities entered bankruptcy, including foreign exchange transactions, securities lending arrangements and repurchase agreements. in the aggregate, the amounts that we believe we owe lehman entities, as reflected in our submissions in the bankruptcy proceedings, are less than our estimate of the realizable value of the claims we have asserted against lehman entities. however, we may recognize gains and losses in different fiscal periods depending in part on the timing and sequence of the resolution of the claims by us and against us in the different proceedings. in addition, the process for resolving these claims and obligations is complex and may continue for some time. we do not know whether the bankruptcy courts and administrators will accept or challenge our claims; question positions we have taken as to our contractual rights and obligations; question any of the valuations or other calculations that we have used in preparing such claims; or seek amounts from us greater than those which we believe to be due. for example, in connection with the resolution of our obligations pursuant to the repurchase agreements between our clients in the u.s. and a lehman entity, we indemnified our clients against loss and assumed our clients rights with respect to collateral consisting of direct and indirect interests in commercial real estate loans. for purposes of our claim in the bankruptcy court, we valued this collateral at our estimate of its liquidation value following the lehman bankruptcy; however, when we took possession of this collateral and recorded it in our consolidated balance sheet, we valued the collateral based on our estimate of its fair value in accordance with gaap, which fair value was significantly greater than its liquidation value. this difference in valuation, among other factors, could result in the bankruptcy court assigning a lesser value to our claim or rejecting our claim entirely. similarly, certain of our clients had entered into securities lending arrangements and/or repurchase agreements with lehman u.k. affiliate. in accordance with the terms of our lending program and repurchase agreement product, we have indemnified those clients against loss in connection with the resolution of these arrangements, and sold or taken possession of the related collateral, which included asset-backed securities. for purposes of the resolution of securities lending arrangements and repurchase agreements in the u.k. in connection with the bankruptcy proceedings, we valued the asset-backed securities at their assumed liquidation values, in each case reflecting the absence of an active trading market for these securities following the bankruptcy of lehman. we subsequently recorded these assets in our consolidated balance sheet at a significantly greater value, based on relevant market conditions and our assessment of their fair value in accordance with gaap at that time. as a result of these valuation decisions, we determined that there was a shortfall in the collateral supporting repurchase agreements and applied excess collateral supporting lehman obligations under securities lending 16 table of contents arrangements against lehman obligations under the repurchase agreements. the administrator in the u.k. bankruptcy proceedings may challenge any or all of the positions that we have taken, including our valuation of the collateral and the application of excess collateral supporting lehman obligations under the securities lending arrangements against lehman unsecured obligations under the repurchase agreements. given the uncertainty in the process and the potential for a court or administrator to challenge the amounts that we believe are owed by us or due to us, it is possible that our obligations, net of recoveries, to lehman entities may be substantial, with the result that our net payment obligations could be potentially as much as several hundred million dollars. we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, with respect to prime broker arrangements we had with lehman entities. in our capacity as manager and trustee, we appointed lehman as prime broker for certain common trust funds. of the seven investors in these funds, one has obtained a judgment against us, we have entered into a settlement agreement with another and four others have commenced litigation against us. the aggregate net asset value, at september 15, 2008 (the date two of the lehman entities involved entered into insolvency proceedings), of cash and securities held by lehman entities attributable to clients with whom we have not resolved claims was approximately $170 million. the claims of these clients should be reduced by the value of the distributions from the lehman entities to these common trust funds, which amounts cannot be determined at this time. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these proceedings, and an adverse resolution could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the fiscal period or periods in which resolved. we face litigation and governmental and client inquiries in connection with our provision of foreign exchange services to custody clients. in october 2009, the attorney general of the state of california commenced an action against state street bank under the california false claims act and california business and professional code relating to foreign exchange services state street bank provides to certain california state pension plans. the california attorney general has asserted that the pricing of certain foreign exchange transactions for these pension plans was not consistent with the terms of the applicable custody contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, state street bank made false claims and engaged in unfair competition. the attorney general has asserted actual damages of $56 million for periods from 2001 to 2007 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. we provide custody and principal foreign exchange services to government pension plans in other jurisdictions, and attorneys general from a number of these other jurisdictions, as well as u.s. attorney offices, have requested information or issued subpoenas in connection with inquiries into our foreign exchange pricing. we have entered into a settlement with respect to our foreign exchange services to the state of washington, to which we had contractual obligations different from those owed to the california state pension plans. litigation concerning foreign exchange pricing could have a material impact on our reputation and on our future revenues. the services we offer to the state of california are also offered to a broad range of custody clients in the u.s. and internationally. we are responding to information requests from other clients. two clients have commenced litigation with respect to our foreign exchange services, including a putative class action filed in massachusetts in february 2011 that seeks unspecified damages on behalf of all custodial clients that executed foreign exchange transactions through state street. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceedings in california or massachusetts or any other proceedings that might be commenced against us by any other attorneys general or clients, and the resolution of any such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our future consolidated results of operations. in light of the action commenced by the california attorney general, we are providing clients with more information about the way that we set the rates for this product and the alternatives offered by us for addressing foreign exchange requirements. although we believe this disclosure will address client interests for increased information, over time it could result in pressure on our pricing of these services or result in clients electing other foreign exchange execution options, which would have an adverse impact on the revenue from, and profitability of, these services for us. 17 table of contents our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our clients incur substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent. our management of collective investment pools on behalf of clients exposes us to reputational risk and, in some cases, operational losses. if our clients incur substantial losses in these pools, particularly in money market funds (where there is a general market expectation that net asset value will not drop below $1.00 per share), receive redemptions as in-kind distributions rather than in cash, or experience significant underperformance relative to the market or our competitors products, our reputation could be significantly harmed, which harm could significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple investment pools to achieve scale, we face the risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in the aggregate. while it is currently not our intention, any decision by us to provide financial support to our investment pools to support our reputation in circumstances where we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so would potentially result in the recognition of significant losses and could in certain situations require us to consolidate the investment pools onto our consolidated balance sheet. a failure or inability to provide such support could damage our reputation among current and prospective clients. we may be exposed to client claims, financial loss, reputational damage and regulatory scrutiny in connection with our securities lending programs. a portion of the cash collateral received by clients under our securities lending program is invested in cash collateral pools that we manage. interests in these cash collateral pools are held by unaffiliated clients and by registered and unregistered investment funds that we manage. our cash collateral pools that are money market funds registered under the investment company act of 1940 are required to maintain, and have maintained, a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. the remainder of our cash collateral pools are collective investment funds that are not required to be registered under the investment company act. these unregistered cash collateral pools seek, but are not required, to maintain, and transact purchases and redemptions at, a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit. the net asset values of our collateral pools have been below $1.00 per unit. our securities lending operations consist of two components: a direct lending program for third-party investment managers and asset owners, the collateral pools for which we refer to as agency lending collateral pools; and investment funds with a broad range of investment objectives that are managed by ssga and engage in securities lending, which we refer to as ssga lending funds. ssga lending funds. from 2007 until june 2010, the net asset value of the assets held by the collateral pools underlying the ssga lending funds declined below $1.00 per unit; however, the ssga lending funds continued to transact purchase and sale transactions with these collateral pools at $1.00 per unit. in response to market conditions following the lehman bankruptcy, ssga limited cash redemptions from the lending funds commencing in 2008. in june 2010, at our election we made a one-time cash contribution of $330 million to the collateral pools and liquidity trusts underlying the ssga lending funds that restored the net asset value per unit of such collateral pools to $1.00 as of the date of such contribution and allowed us to eliminate the restrictions on redemption from the ssga lending funds. these actions contributed to the pre-tax charge of $414 million in the second quarter of 2010 ($330 million plus $9 million of associated costs and the $75 million reserve discussed on page 20), which was recorded in our consolidated statement of income. agency lending collateral pools. similarly, in 2007, the net asset value of the assets held by the agency lending collateral pools declined below $1.00 per unit. the agency lending collateral pools have continued to transact purchases and redemptions at a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit even though the market value of the collateral pools portfolio holdings, determined using pricing from third-party pricing sources, has been below $1.00 per unit. this difference between the transaction value used for purchase and redemption activity and the market value of the collateral pools assets arose, depending upon the collateral pool, at various points since the commencement of the financial crisis in mid-2007 and has declined but persisted throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010. in 2008, we imposed restrictions on cash redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools. 18 table of contents because of differences between the two lending programs, we did not make a cash contribution to the agency lending collateral pools in june 2010, as we did with respect to the ssga lending funds. in december 2010, in order to increase participants control over the degree of their participation in the lending program, we divided certain agency lending collateral pools into liquidity pools, from which clients can obtain cash redemptions, and duration pools, which are restricted and operate as liquidating accounts. depending upon the agency lending collateral pool, the percentage of the collateral pool assets that were represented by interests in the liquidity pool varied as of such division date from 58% to 84%. the following table shows the aggregate net asset values of our unregistered cash collateral pools underlying the agency lending program at december 31, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, based on a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit: (in billions) december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 december 31, 2007 agency lending collateral pools $ 49 $ 85 $ 85 $ 150 additionally, the table below indicates the range of net asset values per unit and weighted-average net asset values per unit based upon the market value of our unregistered cash collateral pools (including, for december 31, 2010, the net asset value of the duration pools) underlying the agency lending program for the periods ending december 31, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007: december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 december 31, 2007 range weighted average range weighted average range weighted average range weighted average agency lending collateral pools $ 0.91 to $1.00 $ 0.993 $ 0.93 to $1.00 $ 0.986 $ 0.92 to $1.00 $ 0.941 $ 0.99 to $1.00 $ 0.993 as of december 31, 2010, the aggregate net asset value of the duration pools was approximately $11.8 billion, and as of such date the range of net asset values of such pools was $0.91 to $0.99 per unit. the return obligations of participants in the agency lending program represented by interests in the duration pools exceeded the market value of the assets in the duration pools by approximately $319 million, which amount is expected to be eliminated as the assets in the duration pools mature or amortize. we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, as a result of our past practice of effecting purchase and redemptions of interests in the collateral pools based upon a consistent $1.00 per unit net asset value during periods when those pools had a market value of less than $1.00 per unit. we believe that our practice of effecting purchases and redemptions of units of the collateral pools at $1.00 per unit, notwithstanding that the underlying portfolios have a market value of less than $1.00 per unit, was in compliance with the terms of our unregistered cash collateral pools and in the best interests of participants in the agency lending program and the ssga lending funds. we continued this practice until june 30, 2010 for the ssga lending funds and until the end of 2010 for the agency lending collateral pools for a number of reasons, including that none of the securities in the cash collateral pools were in default or considered to be materially impaired, and that the collective investment funds restricted withdrawals. although the market value of the assets in the collateral pools improved during 2009 and 2010, a portion of these assets are floating rate instruments with several years of remaining maturity; consequently, the rate of valuation improvement for the duration pools is likely to slow in 2011 or the market value may decline again as a result of changes in market sentiment or in the credit quality of such instruments. in addition, the assets of the liquid pools are currently insufficient to satisfy in full the obligations of participants in the agency lending program to return cash collateral to borrowers. participants in the agency lending program who received units of the duration pool, or who previously received in-kind redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, could seek to assert claims against us in connection with either their loss of liquidity or unrealized mark-to-market losses. if such claims were successfully asserted, such a resolution could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. 19 table of contents the sec is conducting an inquiry into the management of our securities lending program and disclosures made to agency lending participants and participants in the ssga lending funds, in particular, as to the adequacy of our disclosures regarding the collateral pools during periods when those pools had a market value of less than $1.00 and the redemption policy applicable to agency lending participants. while we are cooperating with such inquiry, we cannot determine whether the staff of the sec will conclude that our disclosures or conduct of the program form the basis of a potential formal proceeding seeking damages or other remedies. in addition to the action with the redeeming participant in the agency lending program referred to below, participants in certain of the lending funds have commenced putative class actions on behalf of all investors in the lending funds that are benefit plans subject to the employee retirement income security act, or erisa. the class actions allege, among other things, failure to exercise prudence in the management of the collateral pools and breach of the governing instruments in connection with our imposition of restrictions on redemptions and seek both damages and injunctive relief, and breaches of erisa with respect to compensation paid to us for the operation of the securities lending program on behalf of the ssga lending funds. a determination by the sec or any other regulatory authority to commence an enforcement proceeding with regard to our agency securities lending operations or ssga lending funds, or an adverse outcome in the class action or any future proceedings, could have a material adverse impact on our securities lending operations or the operations of ssga, on our consolidated results of operations or on our reputation. we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, as a result of our imposition of restrictions on redemptions from, and our management of, the direct lending program. beginning in october 2008, following the increased market disruption resulting from the bankruptcy of lehman, we began to require that direct participants in the collateral pools who wish to redeem their interests in the pools, other than in connection with the ordinary course operation of the securities lending program, to accept redemption proceeds in the form of in-kind distributions. while the redemption restrictions were imposed to protect the interests of all participants in the agency lending program (which include erisa plans, governmental retirement plans, mutual funds and other institutional asset owners), the prolonged imposition of these restrictions could materially and adversely affect the relationship with our lending clients and the financial performance of our agency lending operation. we established a $75 million reserve on june 30, 2010 (part of the $414 million charge discussed on page 18) to address potential inconsistencies in connection with our implementation of those redemption restrictions prior to may 31, 2010. the reserve, which still existed as of december 31, 2010, reflects our assessment, as of the same date, of the amount required to compensate clients for the dilutive effect of redemptions which may not have been consistent with the intent of the policy; however, there can be no assurance that participants in the agency lending program will not assert additional damages as a result of the implementation or existence of the redemption restrictions. despite these redemption restrictions, one significant participant in the agency lending program redeemed a substantial portion of its interest in a collateral pool in a manner that we determined not to be consistent with the ordinary course of operations of the securities lending program. after attempts to resolve the dispute with the redeeming participant and have the participant restore short-term liquidity to the collateral pool, we took action, as trustee, that in effect resulted in an in-kind redemption of the participant remaining interest in the collateral pool in a manner that caused such in-kind redemption and the prior cash redemptions, taken as a whole, to be completed on substantially the same basis as if the participant had initially requested an in-kind redemption of its entire interest in the collateral pool. the redeeming participant has commenced a legal action against us for damages that it alleges it incurred as a result of this redemption. an adverse judgment in such case could have an adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which such judgment is issued. the illiquidity and volatility of global fixed-income and equity markets has affected our ability to effectively and profitably manage assets on behalf of clients and may make our products less attractive to clients. we manage assets on behalf of clients in several forms, including in collective investment pools, money market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term 20 table of contents investment funds. in addition to the impact on the market value of client portfolios, at various times since 2007 the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from our pooled investment vehicles. within our asset management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds, that generally offer our clients the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally daily or monthly. this feature requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably anticipated liquidity requirements of our clients. during the market disruption that accelerated following the bankruptcy of lehman, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short- and long-term fixed-income securities, declined dramatically, and providing liquidity to meet all client demands in these investment pools without adversely affecting the return to non-withdrawing clients became more difficult. for clients that invest directly or indirectly in certain of the collateral pools and seek to terminate participation in lending programs, we have required, in accordance with the applicable client arrangements, that these withdrawals from the collateral pools take the form of partial in-kind distributions of securities, and in the case of ssga funds that engage in securities lending, we implemented limitations, which were terminated in 2010, on the portion of an investor interest in such fund that may be withdrawn during any month, although such limitations do not apply to participant-directed activity in defined contribution plans. if higher than normal demands for liquidity from our clients were to return to post-lehman-bankruptcy levels or increase, managing the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools could become more difficult and, as a result, we may elect to support the liquidity of these pools. if liquidity in the fixed-income markets were to deteriorate further or remain disrupted for a prolonged period, our relationships with our clients may be adversely affected; we could, in certain circumstances, be required to consolidate the investment pools, levels of redemption activity could increase and our consolidated results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected. in addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and selling the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, if at all, may then be difficult. alternatively, although we have no such obligations or arrangements currently in place, we have in the past guaranteed, and may in the future guarantee, liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a fund, and making a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own liquidity and financial condition. because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity demands of our clients. the extreme volatility in the equity markets has led to potential for the return on passive and quantitative products deviating from their target returns. the temporary closures of securities exchanges in certain markets create a risk that client redemptions in pooled investment vehicles may result in significant tracking error and underperformance relative to stated benchmarks. any failure of the pools to meet redemption requests or to underperform relative to similar products offered by our competitors could harm our business and our reputation. our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. our relationship with many of our clients is predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet client expectations and other issues with respect to one or more of our businesses could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain clients or our sources of funding for the same or other businesses. preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and client expectations. if any of these developments has a material effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. 21 table of contents we may not be successful in implementing our announced multi-year program to transform our operating model. in order to maintain and grow our business, we must continuously make strategic decisions about our current and future business plans, including plans to target cost initiatives and enhance operational efficiencies, plans for entering or exiting business lines or geographic markets, plans for acquiring or disposing of businesses and plans to build new systems and other infrastructure. on november 30, 2010, we announced a multi-year program to enhance service excellence and innovation, increase efficiencies and position us for accelerated growth. operating model transformations, including this program, entail significant risks. the program, and any future strategic or business plan we implement, may prove to be inadequate for the achievement of the stated objectives, may result in increased or unanticipated costs, may result in earnings volatility, may take longer than anticipated to achieve and may not be successfully implemented. in particular, elements of the program include investment in new technologies, such as private processing clouds, to increase global computing capabilities, and also the development of new, and the evolution of existing, methods and tools to accelerate the pace of innovation, the introduction of new services and solutions and the security of our systems. the transition to new operating models and technology infrastructure may cause disruptions in our relationships with clients and employees and may present other unanticipated technical or operational hurdles. the success of the program and our other strategic plans could also be affected by continuing market disruptions and unanticipated changes in the overall market for financial services and the global economy. we also may not be able to abandon or alter these plans without significant loss, as the implementation of our decisions may involve significant capital outlays, often far in advance of when we expect to generate any related revenues. accordingly, our business, our consolidated results of operations and our consolidated financial condition may be adversely affected by any failure or delay in our strategic decisions, including the program. for additional information about the program, see the consolidated results of operations expenses section of management discussion and analysis, included under item 7, and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included under item 8. we depend on information technology, and any failures of our information technology systems could result in significant costs and reputational damage. our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure to record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions and other data, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets. any interruptions, delays or breakdowns of this infrastructure could result in significant costs to us and damage to our reputation. cost shifting to non-u.s. jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings. we actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations, including by forming joint ventures and by establishing operations in lower cost locations, such as poland, india and china, and by outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions. this effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these business operations. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. during periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exist regarding the continuity of a high level of service delivery. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be impacted by regulatory and client acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. it may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. we may be unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively, which may allow competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with 22 table of contents them. to the extent that we are not able to protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, employees with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others advantage. in addition, we may infringe upon claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. we may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. the intellectual property of an acquired business may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. however, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent upon licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated. competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and/or retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of uncertainty concerning evolving compensation restrictions applicable, or which may become applicable, to banks (and potentially not applicable to other financial services firms). the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, their years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely affect our clients perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates or other services. we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. the markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. these markets are changing as a result of new and evolving laws and regulations applicable to financial services institutions. regulatory-driven market changes cannot always be anticipated, and may adversely affect the demand for, and profitability of, the products and services that we offer. in addition, new market entrants and competitors may address changes in the markets more rapidly than us, or may provide customers with a more attractive offering of products and services, adversely affecting our business. we have also experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker-dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. ongoing consolidation within the financial services industry could pose challenges in the markets we serve, including potentially increased downward pricing pressure across our businesses. many of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. these competitors are in some instances significant clients, and the retention of these clients involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our client after a short notice period. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, client pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestiture pose risks for our business. as part of our business strategy, we acquire complementary businesses and technologies, enter into strategic alliances and divest portions of our business. in january 2011, we completed our acquisition, for cash, of bank of 23 table of contents ireland asset management, or biam, and during 2010 we completed our acquisition of the global custody, depository banking, correspondent banking and fund administration business of intesa sanpaolo, or intesa, and the acquisition of mourant international finance administration, or mifa. we undertake transactions such as these to, among other reasons, expand our geographic footprint, access new clients, technologies or services, develop closer relationships with our business partners, efficiently deploy capital or to leverage cost savings or other financial opportunities. we may not achieve the expected benefits of these transactions, which could result in increased costs, lowered revenues, ineffective deployment of capital and diminished competitive position or reputation. these transactions also involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, managerial and operational challenges, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. for example, the businesses that we acquire or our strategic alliances may underperform relative to the price paid or the resources committed by us, we may not achieve anticipated cost savings or we may otherwise be adversely affected by acquisition-related charges. further, past acquisitions, including the acquisitions of intesa, mifa and biam, have resulted in the recording of goodwill and other significant intangible assets on our consolidated statement of condition. these assets are not eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital under current proposals, and we may be required to record impairment in our consolidated statement of income in future periods if we determine that we will not realize the value of these assets. through our acquisitions we may also assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. while in most of our transactions we seek to mitigate these risks through, among other things, adequate due diligence and indemnification provisions, we cannot be certain that the due diligence we have conducted is adequate or that the indemnification provisions and other risk mitigants we put in place will be sufficient. various regulatory approvals or consents are generally required prior to closing of acquisitions and, which may include approvals of the federal reserve and other domestic and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms that materially affect the terms of the transaction or our ability to capture some of the opportunities presented by the transaction. any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction. some acquisitions we announce may not be completed, if we do not receive the required regulatory approvals or if other closing conditions are not satisfied. the integration of our acquisitions results in risks to our business and other uncertainties. the integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. integration activities are complicated and time consuming. we may not be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings, as anticipated, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related revenue growth or cost savings. we also face the risk of being unable to retain, or cross-sell our products or services to, the clients of acquired companies. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in client dissatisfaction and defection. clients of asset servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these clients or a significant reduction in revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, could adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions. with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, 24 table of contents while avoiding increased related expenses. the introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and resources. substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our clients and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely manner at competitive prices. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our clients. failure to manage successfully these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, as well as on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. long-term contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk. we enter into long-term contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing services, primarily for conversions, to clients, including services related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. these arrangements generally set forth our fee schedule for the term of the contract and, absent a change in service requirements, do not permit us to re-price the contract for changes in our costs or for market pricing. the long-term contracts for these relationships require, in some cases, considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services, efficiently assume our contractual responsibilities in a timely manner and our ability to control our costs and maintain the relationship with the client for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. our estimate of the profitability of these arrangements can be adversely affected by declines in the assets under the clients management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or client-specific issues. in addition, the profitability of these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross sell additional services to these clients, and we may be unable to do so. in addition, performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. our failure to meet specified service levels may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the client. if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see our revenue decline. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. we may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. we have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. while we currently believe that our risk management process is effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the risks in our various businesses. in addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. we may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our businesses or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. if our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or our businesses or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. operational risk is inherent in all of our business activities. as a leading provider of services to institutional investors, we provide a broad array of services, including research, investment management, trading services and investment servicing, that give rise to operational risk. in addition, these services generate a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. we face the risk that the policies, procedures and systems we have established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, be inadequate 25 table of contents or become outdated. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or monitoring mechanisms or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our future consolidated results of operations. operational errors that result in us remitting funds to a failing or bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses. we may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. in addition, our clients, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the clients, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. new accounting standards, including the potential adoption of international financial reporting standards, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the financial accounting standards board, the international accounting standards board or the sec, can potentially affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. these changes are difficult to predict, and can materially affect how we record and report our consolidated results of operations and financial condition and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of consolidated prior period financial statements. changes in tax laws or regulations, and challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, may adversely affect our net income, our effective tax rate and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. our businesses can be directly or indirectly affected by new tax legislation, the expiration of existing tax laws, or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. in the normal course of business, we are subject to reviews by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities. these reviews may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxes due and the allocation of taxable income among tax jurisdictions. these adjustments could affect the attainment of our financial goals. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects. our businesses and relationships with clients are dependent upon our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our clients trade secrets and confidential information (including client transactional data and personal data about our employees, our clients and our clients clients). unauthorized access to such information may occur, resulting in theft, loss or other misappropriation. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive positions, our relationships with our clients and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries and enforcement, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs. the quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in imprecise risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions. we use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our businesses. as an input to our overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, operational risk, interest rate risk and business risk we face. during the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we sometimes use models to measure the value of positions for which reliable market prices are not available. we also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading activities, 26 table of contents hedging, asset and liability management and whether to change business strategy. in all of these uses, errors in the underlying model or model assumptions, or inadequate model assumptions, could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences. because of our widespread usage of models, potential errors in models pose an ongoing risk to us. additionally, we may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. our measurement methodologies rely upon many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations we rely on may not continue to be relevant. consequently, the measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect those changes. while our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have inadequate capital to conduct our businesses. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen events, including terrorist attacks, the emergence of a pandemic or acts of embezzlement. acts of terrorism or the emergence of a pandemic could significantly affect our business. we have instituted disaster recovery and continuity plans to address risks from terrorism and pandemic; however, forecasting or addressing all potential contingencies is not possible for events of this nature. acts of terrorism, either targeted or broad in scope, could damage our physical facilities, harm our employees and disrupt our operations. a pandemic, or concern about a possible pandemic, could lead to operational difficulties and impair our ability to manage our business. acts of terrorism and pandemics could also negatively affect our clients and counterparties, as well as result in disruptions in general economic activity and the financial markets. terrorism may also take the form of the theft or misappropriation of property, confidential information or financial assets. due to our role as a financial services institution, our businesses are already subject to similar risks of theft, misappropriation and embezzlement with respect to our and our clients property, information and assets. our employees and contractors and other partners have access to our facilities and internal systems and may seek to create the opportunity to engage in these activities. in the event our controls and procedures to prevent theft, misappropriation or embezzlement fail or are circumvented, our business would be negatively affected by, among other things, the related financial losses, diminished reputation and threat of litigation and regulatory inquiry and investigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth in the market risk section of management discussion and analysis, included under item 7, is incorporated by reference herein.risk factors this form 10-k, as well as other reports filed by us under the securities exchange act of 1934, registration statements filed by us under the securities act of 1933, our annual report to shareholders and other public statements we may make, contain statements (including statements in management discussion and analysis included under item 7) that are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of u.s. securities laws, including statements about industry, regulatory, economic and market trends, management expectations about our financial performance, market growth, acquisitions and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities and earnings, management confidence in our strategies and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. terminology such as expect, look, believe, anticipate, intend, plan, estimate, forecast, seek, may, will, trend, target and goal, or similar statements or variations of such terms are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of future results. management expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to state street 7 table of contents and its subsidiaries, including state street bank. factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based cannot be foreseen with certainty and may include, but are not limited to: the financial strength and continuing viability of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business and to which we have investment, credit or financial exposure including, for example, the direct and indirect effects on counterparties of the current sovereign debt risks in europe and other regions; financial market disruptions or economic recession, whether in the u.s., europe or other regions internationally; increases in the volatility of, or declines in the level of, our net interest revenue, changes in the composition of the assets on our consolidated statement of condition and the possibility that we may be required to change the manner in which we fund those assets; the liquidity of the u.s. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income securities and inter-bank credits, and the liquidity requirements of our clients; the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and other markets in the u.s. and internationally; the credit quality, credit agency ratings, and fair values of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective securities and the recognition of an impairment loss in our consolidated statement of income; our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding, and our ability to deploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with our liquidity requirements and risk profile; the manner in which the federal reserve and other regulators implement the dodd-frank act, basel iii, european directives with respect to banking and financial instruments and other regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and internationally, including regulatory developments that result in changes to our operating model or other changes to the provision of our services; adverse changes in required regulatory capital ratios, whether arising under the dodd-frank act, basel ii or basel iii, or due to changes in regulatory positions or regulations in jurisdictions in which we engage in banking activities; approvals required by the federal reserve or other regulators for the use, allocation or distribution of our capital or other specific capital actions or programs, including acquisitions, dividends and equity repurchases, that may restrict or limit our growth plans, distributions to shareholders, equity purchase programs or other capital initiatives; changes in law or regulation that may adversely affect our, our clients or our counterparties business activities and the products or services that we sell, including additional or increased taxes or assessments thereon, capital adequacy requirements and changes that expose us to risks related to compliance; the maintenance of credit agency ratings for our debt and depository obligations as well as the level of credibility of credit agency ratings; delays or difficulties in the execution of our previously announced business operations and information technology transformation program, which could lead to changes in our estimates of the charges, expenses or savings associated with the planned program, resulting in increased volatility of our earnings; the results of, and costs associated with, government investigations, litigation, and similar claims, disputes, or proceedings; the possibility that our clients will incur substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent, and the possibility of significant reductions in the valuation of assets; adverse publicity or other reputational harm; 8 table of contents dependencies on information technology, complexities and costs of protecting the security of our systems and difficulties with protecting our intellectual property rights; our ability to grow revenue, attract and/or retain and compensate highly skilled people, control expenses and attract the capital necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements; potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to regulatory and technological changes, the effects of consolidation, and perceptions of state street as a suitable service provider or counterparty; potential changes in how clients compensate us for our services, and the mix of services that clients choose from us; the risks that acquired businesses and joint ventures will not achieve their anticipated financial and operational benefits or will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will take longer than anticipated, that expected synergies will not be achieved or unexpected disynergies will be experienced, that client and deposit retention goals will not be met, that other regulatory or operational challenges will be experienced and that disruptions from the transaction will harm relationships with clients, employees or regulators; the ability to complete acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures, including the ability to obtain regulatory approvals, the ability to arrange financing as required and the ability to satisfy closing conditions; our ability to recognize emerging clients needs and to develop products that are responsive to such trends and profitable to the company; the performance of and demand for the products and services we offer, including the level and timing of redemptions and withdrawals from our collateral pools and other collective investment products; and the potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased operational risk; our ability to measure the fair value of the investment securities on our consolidated statement of condition; our ability to control operating risks, data security breach risks, information technology systems risks and outsourcing risks, and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to manage our business and the possibility that our controls will prove insufficient, fail or be circumvented; changes in accounting standards and practices; and changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities that affect the amount of taxes due. actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this form 10-k or disclosed in our other sec filings. forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the time this form 10-k is filed with the sec. we undertake no obligation to revise our forward-looking statements after the time they are made. the factors discussed above are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. we cannot anticipate all developments that may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis upon which investors evaluate state street. any investor in state street should consider all risks and uncertainties disclosed in our sec filings, including our filings under the securities exchange act of 1934, in particular our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, or registration statements filed under the securities act of 1933, all of which are accessible on the sec website at www.sec.gov or on our website at www.statestreet.com . 9 table of contents the following is a discussion of risk factors applicable to state street. the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, many of which are major financial institutions and may have dependencies upon other financial institutions or sovereigns, and our assumption of significant credit and counterparty risk, could expose us to loss. the financial markets are characterized by extensive interdependencies among banks, central banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. many financial institutions also hold sovereign debt securities that comprise material portions of their balance sheets, have exposures to other financial institutions that have significant sovereign debt exposures or have sought to mitigate exposures to financial counterparties by accepting collateral consisting of sovereign debt. as a result of these interdependencies, we and many of our clients have concentrated counterparty exposure to other financial institutions, particularly large and complex institutions, and sovereign issuers. although we have procedures for monitoring both individual and aggregate counterparty risk, like other large financial institutions, the nature of our business is such that significant individual and aggregate counterparty exposure is inherent in our business as our focus is on large institutional investors and their businesses. from time to time, we assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or guarantor level. such concentrations may be material and can from time to time exceed 10% of our consolidated total shareholders equity. our material counterparty exposures change daily, and the counterparties to which our risk exposure exceeds 10% of our consolidated total shareholders equity are also variable during any reported period; however, our largest exposures tend to be to other financial institutions. in some cases, our exposure to a counterparty is the result of our relationships with numerous affiliated entities. these affiliated entities and our risk exposures to them also vary. under evolving regulatory restrictions on credit exposure, and a broadening of the measure of credit exposure under such regulations, we may be required to limit our exposures to financial institutions and sovereign issuers to levels that we may currently exceed. the credit exposure restrictions under such evolving regulations may adversely affect our businesses and may require that we modify our operating models or our balance sheet management policies and practices. concentration of counterparty exposure presents significant risks to us and to our clients because the failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties (or in some cases of our clients counterparties) has the potential to expose us to risk of loss. the continued instability of the financial markets since 2007 and the increased pressure on european financial markets during 2011 and into 2012 have resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, as reflected in the credit downgrades of numerous large u.s. and non-u.s. financial institutions during the second half of 2011. credit downgrades during 2011 and in early 2012 to several sovereign issuers (including the united states, france, austria, italy, spain and portugal) and other issuers have stressed the market value and perceived creditworthiness of financial institutions, many of which invest in, accept collateral in the form of, or value other transactions based upon the debt or other securities issued by, sovereign or other issuers. further economic, political or market turmoil may lead to stress on sovereign issuers, and increase the potential for sovereign defaults or restructurings, additional credit rating downgrades or the departure of sovereign issuers from common currencies or economic unions. as a result, we may be exposed to increased counterparty risks, either resulting from our role as principal or because of commitments we make in our capacity as agent for our clients. changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions or sovereign issuers can occur rapidly, are often based upon a variety of factors and are difficult to predict. in addition, as u.s. and non-u.s. governments have addressed the financial crisis in an evolving manner, the criteria for and manner of governmental support of financial institutions and other economically important sectors remain uncertain. if a significant individual counterparty defaults on an obligation to us, we could incur financial losses that materially adversely affect our businesses and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. a counterparty default can also have adverse effects on, and financially weaken, other of our counterparties, which could also materially adversely affect our businesses and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 10 table of contents the degree of client demand for short-term credit tends to increase during periods of market turbulence, exposing us to further counterparty-related risks. for example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may experience significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was not anticipated by the fund manager. our relationship with our clients, the nature of the settlement process and our systems may result in the extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. for some types of clients, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if the client experiences credit difficulties. in addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. we are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties that are affiliated entities and may not be able in all circumstances to net exposures to the same legal entity across multiple products. as a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to one of its affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured, and when our exposure is secured, the realizable market value of the collateral may have declined by the time we exercise rights against that collateral. this risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily impaired market. in addition, our clients often purchase securities or other financial instruments from financial counterparties, including broker/dealers, under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. under these arrangements, the counterparty is obligated to repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the client at the same price at some point in the future. the anticipated value of the collateral is intended to exceed the counterparty repayment obligation. in many cases, we agree to indemnify our clients from any loss that would arise upon a default by the counterparty if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or other financial assets are less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the client counterparty. in such instances of counterparty default, we, rather than our client, are exposed to the risks associated with collateral value. we also engage in certain off-balance sheet activities that involve risks. for example, we provide benefit responsive contracts, known as wraps, to defined contribution plans that offer a stable value option to their participants. during the financial crisis, the book value of obligations under many of these contracts exceeded the market value of the underlying portfolio holdings. concerns regarding the portfolio of investments protected by such contracts, or regarding the investment manager overseeing such an investment option, may result in redemption demands from stable value products covered by benefit responsive contracts at a time when the portfolio market value is less than its book value, potentially exposing us to risk of loss. similarly, we provide credit facilities in connection with the remarketing of municipal obligations, potentially exposing us to credit exposure to the municipalities issuing such bonds and to increased liquidity demands. in the current economic environment, where municipal credits are subject to increased investor concern, the risks associated with such businesses increase. further, our off-balance sheet activities also include indemnified securities financing obligations, where we indemnify our clients against losses they incur in connection with the failure of borrowers under our program to return securities on loan. although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our global treasury group, our currency and other trading activities, our securities lending business and our investment management business. given the limited number of strong counterparties in the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our clients counterparty credit risk. the current consolidation of financial service firms that began in 2008, and the failures of other financial institutions, have increased the concentration of our counterparty risk. our business involves significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. during 2011 and into 2012, greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain and other european economies continued to experience difficulties in financing their deficits and servicing outstanding debt. financial markets remained highly volatile, reflecting eurozone instability and sovereign debt concerns, and the credit ratings of associated sovereign debt and european financial institutions were further downgraded during 2011 and early 11 table of contents 2012. this loss of confidence has led to rescue measures for greece, ireland and portugal by eurozone countries and the international monetary fund. numerous european governments, notably italy and spain, have also adopted austerity and other measures in an attempt to contain the spread of sovereign debt concerns. the actions required to be taken by certain european countries as a condition to rescue packages and austerity programs, and by other countries to mitigate similar developments in their economies, have increased internal political tensions, and, in the case of greece, italy and spain, have resulted in internal political changes. the complexity and severity of european sovereign debt concerns has also resulted in political discord among the eurozone countries. eurozone countries continue to disagree on how to manage current european sovereign debt concerns, and they have not resolved how to stabilize the eurozone for the near- and long-term, increasing uncertainty about the further spread of sovereign debt concerns, the continuation of prevailing eurozone treaties, economic interconnectedness and the status of the euro. the decline in the market value of sovereign debt and the requirement as part of certain rescue packages for creditors to agree to material restructuring of outstanding sovereign debt have weakened the capital position of many european financial institutions, and such institutions will be required to raise additional capital in 2012. these political disagreements, along with the interdependencies among european economies and financial institutions and the substantial refinancing requirements of european sovereign issuers during 2012, have exacerbated concern regarding the stability of european financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. given the scope of our european operations, clients and counterparties, persistent disruptions in the european financial markets, the failure to resolve and contain sovereign debt concerns, the attempt of a country to abandon the euro, the failure of a significant european financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the euro, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. our investment securities portfolio and consolidated financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in various interest, market and credit risks. our investment securities portfolio represented approximately 50% of our consolidated total assets as of december 31, 2011, and the interest revenue associated with our investment portfolio represented approximately 24% of our consolidated total gross revenue for the year ended december 31, 2011. as such, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition are materially exposed to the risks associated with our investment portfolio, including, without limitation, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit performance, credit ratings, access to liquidity, mark-to-market valuations and our ability to reinvest repayments of principal with respect to portfolio securities. the low interest rate environment that has persisted since the financial crisis began, and which is anticipated to continue in 2012 and beyond, limits our ability to maintain a net interest margin in line with our historical averages. relative to many other major financial institutions, investment securities represent a greater percentage of our consolidated statement of condition and commercial loans represent a smaller percentage. our investment portfolio continues to have significant concentrations in certain classes of securities, including non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities and securities with concentrated exposure to consumers. these classes and types of securities experienced significant liquidity, valuation and credit quality deterioration during the financial disruption that began in mid-2007. we also have material holdings of non-u.s. mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities with exposures to european countries whose sovereign debt markets have experienced increased stress over the past year, are expected to continue to experience stress during 2012 and may continue to experience stress in the future. for further information, refer to the risk factor above titled our business involves significant european operations, and disruptions in european economies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. further, we hold a portfolio of state and municipal bonds. in view of the budget deficits that most states and many municipalities are currently incurring due to the continued depressed economic environment, the risks associated with this portfolio have increased. 12 table of contents if market conditions similar to those experienced in 2007 and 2008 were to return, our investment portfolio could experience a decline in liquidity and market value, regardless of our credit view of our portfolio holdings. for example, we recorded significant non-credit losses in connection with the consolidation of our off-balance sheet asset-backed commercial paper conduits in 2009 and the repositioning of our investment portfolio in 2010 with respect to these asset classes. in addition, deterioration in the credit quality of our portfolio holdings could result in other-than-temporary impairment. our investment portfolio is further subject to changes in both domestic interest rates and foreign interest rates (primarily in europe) and could be negatively impacted by a quicker than anticipated increase in interest rates. in addition, while approximately 89% of the carrying value of the securities in our investment portfolio is rated aaa or aa, if a material portion of our investment portfolio were to experience credit rating declines below investment grade, our capital ratios under the requirements of basel ii and basel iii could be adversely affected, which risk is greater with portfolios of investment securities than with loans or holdings of u.s. treasury securities. our business activities expose us to liquidity and interest-rate risk. in our business activities, we assume liquidity and interest-rate risk in our investment portfolio of longer- and intermediate-term assets, and our net interest revenue is affected by the levels of interest rates in global markets, changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. our ability to anticipate these changes or to hedge the related on- and off-balance sheet exposures can significantly influence the success of our asset-and liability-management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. the impact of changes in interest rates will depend on the relative duration of assets and liabilities as well as the currencies in which they are denominated. sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads generally have a constraining effect on our net interest revenue. in particular, if short-term interest rates rise, our net interest revenue is likely to decline, and any such decline could be material. in addition, we may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or where the clients participating in these products have a right to the return of cash or assets on limited notice. these business activities include, among others, securities finance collateral pools, money market and other short-term investment funds and liquidity facilities utilized in connection with municipal bond programs. if clients demand a return of their cash or assets, particularly on limited notice, and these investment pools do not have the liquidity to support those demands, we could be forced to sell investment securities at unfavorable prices, damaging our reputation as an asset manager and potentially exposing us to claims related to our management of the pools. if we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our consolidated financial condition, including our regulatory capital ratios, our consolidated results of operations and our business prospects could be adversely affected. liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated statement of condition and to our ability to service our client base. we generally use our sources of funds to: extend credit to our clients in connection with our custody business; meet demands for return of funds on deposit by clients; and manage the pool of long- and intermediate-term assets that are included in investment securities on our consolidated statement of condition. because the demand for credit by our clients is difficult to forecast and control, and may be at its peak at times of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment portfolio is significantly longer than the contractual maturity of our client deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent upon, access to various sources of short-term funding. at the same time, during periods of market uncertainty, the level of client deposits has in recent years tended to increase; however, since such deposits are 13 table of contents considered to be transitory, we deposit excess deposits with central banks and in other highly liquid and low yielding instruments. these levels of excess client deposits, as a consequence, can increase our net interest revenue but adversely affect our net interest margin. in managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is client deposits, which are predominantly transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based upon a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these deposits and the perception of safety of those deposits or short-term obligations relative to alternative short-term investments available to our clients, including the capital markets. for example, the contraction in the number of counterparties for which we have a favorable credit assessment as a result of ongoing market disruptions has made it difficult for us to invest our available liquidity, which has adversely affected the rate of return that we have earned on these assets, which could adversely affect our ability to attract client deposits. the availability and cost of credit in short-term markets are highly dependent upon the markets perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. our efforts to monitor and manage our liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven reductions in liquidity. in such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in the realization of a loss in our consolidated statement of income. the global recession and financial crisis that began in mid-2007 have adversely affected us and increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses. continued or additional disruptions in the global economy or financial markets could further adversely affect our business and financial performance. our businesses have been significantly affected by global economic conditions and their impact on financial markets. since mid-2007, global credit and other financial markets have suffered from substantial volatility, illiquidity and disruption as a result of the global recession and financial crisis. the resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, as well as the businesses of our clients and significant counterparties. these events, and the potential for continuing or additional disruptions, have also affected overall confidence in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and pricing issues within the fixed-income markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses and have had an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. while global economies and financial markets have shown initial signs of stabilizing, during 2011, u.s. sovereign debt, non-u.s. sovereign debt and numerous global financial services firms experienced credit downgrades, sovereign debt concerns in the eurozone increased and key emerging economies, including those in india, china and brazil, experienced reductions in the rate of their economic growth. the occurrence of additional disruptions in global markets or the worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our businesses and the financial services industry in general, and also increases the difficulty and unpredictability of aligning our business strategies, infrastructure and operating costs in light of current and future market and economic conditions. market disruptions can adversely affect our revenue if the value of assets under custody, administration or management decline, while the costs of providing the related services remain constant due to the fixed nature of such costs. these factors can reduce our asset-based fee revenue and could adversely affect our other transaction-based revenue, such as revenues from securities finance and foreign exchange activities, and the volume of transactions that we execute for or with our clients, but the costs of providing the related services would not similarly decline. further, the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. in general, increased currency volatility tends to increase our market risk but also increases our foreign exchange revenue. conversely, periods of lower currency volatility tend to decrease our market risk but also decreases our foreign exchange revenue. 14 table of contents in addition, as our business grows globally and as a greater percentage of our revenue is earned in currencies other than u.s. dollars, our exposure to foreign currency volatility could affect our levels of consolidated revenue, our consolidated expenses and our consolidated results of operations, as well as the value of our investment in our non-u.s. operations and our investment portfolio holdings. as our investment servicing product offerings within our global services and global markets businesses expand, in part to seek to take advantage of perceived opportunities arising under various regulatory reforms and resulting market changes, the degree of our exposure to various market and credit risks will evolve, potentially resulting in greater revenue volatility. we also will need to make additional investments to develop the operational infrastructure and to enhance our risk management capabilities to support these businesses, which may increase the operating expenses of such businesses or, if our risk management resources fail to keep pace with product expansion, result in increased risk of loss from our trading businesses. we face extensive and changing government regulation, including changes to capital requirements under the dodd-frank act, basel ii and basel iii, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance. most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the clients to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. these regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. as a financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulatory and supervisory oversight, both in the u.s. and outside the u.s. the regulations affect, among other things, the scope of our activities and client services, our capital structure and our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy, our share repurchase actions, the manner in which we market our services and our interactions with foreign regulatory agencies and officials, for example, as a result of the foreign corrupt practices act. for example, the requirement that we maintain recovery and resolution plans, and organize our operations to facilitate such plans, could require us to operate our businesses in a less efficient manner than we have historically. the dodd-frank act, which became law in july 2010, will have a significant impact on the regulatory structure of the financial markets and will impose additional costs on us. while few of the regulations required to be implemented under dodd-frank are in final form, and while many regulations have not yet been proposed, the regulatory proposals to date could potentially have a significant impact on our businesses and state street. for example, the provision of the so called volcker rule applicable to management or sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds would, as currently proposed, require that unaffiliated financial institutions provide custody services to some of the funds managed by ssga, particularly those outside the u.s. similarly, the proposed prudential rules applicable to systemically important financial institutions, or sifis, could significantly increase the amount of credit exposure attracted by our securities lending business and result in limiting business volumes to comply with credit concentration limits. our current designation as a sifi, and our initial designation as a global systemically important bank, or g-sib, will subject us to incrementally higher capital and prudential requirements that will not be applicable to all of the financial institutions with whom we compete as a custodian, dealer or asset manager. the dodd-frank act and regulations implementing it also could adversely affect certain of our business operations and our competitive position, or those of our clients. the dodd-frank act, among other things, establishes a new financial stability oversight council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions, restricts proprietary trading and private fund investment activities by banking institutions, creates a new framework for the regulation of derivatives, alters the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred securities and other hybrid capital securities and revises the fdic assessment base for deposit insurance. provisions in the dodd-frank act, as well as regulation in europe, may also restrict the flexibility of financial institutions to compensate their employees. in addition, provisions in the dodd-frank act may require changes to the existing basel ii capital rules or affect their interpretations by institutions or regulators, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with basel ii regulations, our business operations, regulatory capital structure, 15 table of contents regulatory capital ratios or our financial performance. the final effects of the dodd-frank act on our business will depend largely on the implementation of the act by regulatory bodies, which in many cases have been delayed, and the exercise of discretion by these regulatory bodies. in addition, rapid regulatory change is occurring internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of basel iii and the alternative investment fund managers directive and the potential adoption of the eu derivatives initiatives and revisions to the european collective investment fund, or ucits, directive and the markets in financial instruments directive. among current regulatory developments are proposed rules to enhance the responsibilities of custodians to their clients for asset losses. the dodd-frank act and these other international regulatory changes could limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our regulatory capital requirements and impose additional costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences, including a reduction of our credit ratings. different countries may respond to the market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting manners, which could have the impact of increasing the cost of compliance for us. the evolving regulatory environment, including changes to existing regulations and the introduction of new regulations, may also contribute to decisions we may make to suspend or withdraw from existing businesses, activities or initiatives. in addition to potential lost revenue associated with any such suspensions or withdrawals, any such suspensions or withdrawals may result in significant restructuring or related costs or exposures. for example, in december 2011, in response to challenging market conditions and an evolving regulatory environment, we initiated the withdrawal from our fixed-income trading initiative. this resulted in an $83 million restructuring charge in the fourth quarter of 2011 related to fair-value adjustments to the initiative trading portfolio resulting from our decision to withdraw from the initiative; severance and benefits costs; and costs associated with asset write-downs and contract terminations. in addition, as a result of the withdrawal from this initiative, we intend to wind down the initiative remaining trading portfolio. at december 31, 2011, this trading portfolio consisted primarily of derivative assets with an aggregate fair value of approximately $1.89 billion and derivative liabilities with an aggregate fair value of approximately $1.78 billion. our consolidated results of operations for future periods during which the trading portfolio is wound down may be affected, potentially materially, by the impact of economic and market conditions, including changes in credit profiles and currency and yield spreads, on the valuation of, or trade execution for, the initiative remaining trading portfolio. new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, including under basel iii and the dodd-frank act, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. the regulatory perspective, particularly that of the federal reserve board, on regulatory capital requirements may affect our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase our common stock unless we can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of our regulators, that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a severely stressed market environment. in addition, the implementation of certain of the proposals with regard to regulatory capital could affect our regulatory capital position. if we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. similarly, many of our clients are subject to significant regulatory requirements, and retain our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal requirements. changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. in addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. if we cause clients to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and expenses that they incur. in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. if this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. 16 table of contents our business and capital-related activities, including our ability to return capital to shareholders and repurchase our capital stock, may be adversely affected by our implementation of the revised capital requirements under basel ii, basel iii and the dodd-frank act or in the event our capital structure is determined to be insufficient as a result of mandated stress testing. we are currently in the qualification period that is required to be completed prior to our full implementation of the basel ii regulatory capital rules. during the qualification period we must demonstrate that we comply with the basel ii requirements to the satisfaction of the federal reserve. during or subsequent to this qualification period, the federal reserve may determine that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the regulation and may require us to take certain actions to come into compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, regulatory capital structure, capital ratios or financial performance or otherwise restrict our growth plans or strategies. in addition, regulators could change the basel ii capital rules or their interpretations as they apply to state street, potentially due to the rule-making associated with certain provisions of the dodd-frank act, which could adversely affect us and our ability to comply with basel ii. basel iii, the dodd-frank act and the regulatory rules to be adopted for the implementation of basel iii and the dodd-frank act will result in an increase in the minimum levels of regulatory capital and liquidity that we will be required to maintain and changes in the manner in which our regulatory capital ratios are calculated. in addition, we are required by the federal reserve to conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations, and our capital structure and liquidity management are subject to periodic review and stress testing by the federal reserve, which is used by the federal reserve to evaluate the adequacy of our regulatory capital and the potential requirement to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums. banking regulators have not yet issued final rules and guidance for our implementation of the revised capital and liquidity rules under basel iii and the dodd-frank act. consequently, we cannot determine at this time the alignment of our regulatory capital, business operations and strategies with the regulatory capital requirements to be implemented. our implementation of the new capital requirements may not be approved by the federal reserve and the federal reserve may impose capital requirements in excess of our expectations, and maintenance of high levels of liquidity may adversely affect our revenues. in the event our implementation of the new capital requirements under basel iii and the dodd-frank act or our current capital structure are determined not to conform with current and future capital requirements, our ability to deploy capital in the operation of our business or our ability to distribute capital to shareholders or to repurchase our capital stock may be constrained and our business may be adversely affected. any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm. various independent rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. we anticipate that the rating agencies will review our ratings regularly based on our consolidated results of operations and developments in our businesses. our credit ratings were downgraded by each of the principal rating agencies during the first quarter of 2009, and in the fourth quarter of 2011, standard &amp; poor revised its outlook for our credit ratings to negative from stable. a further downgrade or a significant reduction in our capital ratios might adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to maintain our current ratings. the current market environment and our exposure to financial institutions and other counterparties, including sovereigns, increase the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. a failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in certain products, may be negatively perceived by our clients or counterparties or may have other adverse reputational effects. additionally, our counterparties, as well as our clients, rely upon our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. if we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or 17 table of contents perceived, including the effects of market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or consolidated results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may become less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us, our clients may reduce or place limits upon the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers and our prospective clients may select other service providers. the risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is increased in the current market environment, where the consolidation of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, is resulting in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and competitors. if our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our clients, on our or our clients behalf, will be materially compromised. if our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide them, our revenues will decrease accordingly. we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. we may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings, in response to changes in regulatory capital rules or for other purposes, including financing acquisitions. however, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. in the event of rising interest rates, disruptions in financial markets, negative perception of our business or financial strength, or other factors that would increase our cost of borrowing, we cannot be sure of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us, which could adversely affect our business and ability to implement our business plan and strategic goals, including the financing of acquisitions. we may not be successful in implementing our announced multi-year program to transform our operating model. in order to maintain and grow our business, we must continuously make strategic decisions about our current and future business plans, including plans to target cost initiatives and enhance operational efficiencies, plans for entering or exiting business lines or geographic markets, plans for acquiring or disposing of businesses and plans to build new systems and other infrastructure, to engage third-party service providers and to address staffing needs. on november 30, 2010, we announced a multi-year program to enhance service excellence and innovation, increase efficiencies and position us for accelerated growth. operating model transformations, including this program, entail significant risks. the program, and any future strategic or business plan we implement, may prove to be inadequate for the achievement of the stated objectives, may result in increased or unanticipated costs or risks, may result in earnings volatility, may take longer than anticipated to implement, may involve elements reliant upon the performance of third parties and may not be successfully implemented. in particular, elements of the program include investment in new technologies, such as private processing clouds, to increase global computing capabilities, and also the development of new, and the evolution of existing, methods and tools to accelerate the pace of innovation, the introduction of new services and solutions, the use of service providers associated with components of our technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support and the enhancement of the security of our systems. the transition to new operating models and technology infrastructure may cause disruptions in our relationships with clients, employees and vendors and may present other unanticipated technical, operational or other hurdles. the success of the program and our other strategic plans could also be affected by continuing market disruptions and unanticipated changes in the overall market for financial services and the global economy. we also may not be able to abandon or alter these plans without significant loss, as the implementation of our decisions may involve significant capital outlays, often far in advance of when we expect to generate any related revenues. accordingly, our business, our consolidated results of operations and our consolidated financial condition may be adversely affected by any failure or delay in our strategic decisions, including the program or elements thereof. for additional information about the program, see consolidated results of operations expenses in management discussion and analysis, included under item 7, and note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included under item 8. 18 table of contents our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. from time to time, our clients, or the government on their or its own behalf, make claims and take legal action relating to, among other things, our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. in any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation or on client demand for our products and services. we may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. as a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. in the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. these may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. in regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending matter or, if determined adversely against us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. the resolution of certain pending legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. we face litigation and governmental and client inquiries in connection with our execution of indirect foreign exchange trades with custody clients; these issues have adversely impacted our revenue from such trading and may cause our revenue from such trading to decline in the future. our custody clients are not required to execute foreign exchange transactions with us. to the extent they execute foreign exchange trades with us, they generally execute a greater volume using our direct methods of execution at negotiated rates or spreads than they execute using our indirect methods at rates we establish. where our clients or their investment managers choose to use our indirect foreign exchange execution methods, generally they elect that service for trades of smaller size or for currencies where regulatory or operational requirements cause trading in such currencies to present greater operational risk and costs. given the nature of these trades and other features of our indirect foreign exchange service, we generally charge higher rates for indirect execution than we charge for other trades, including trades in the interbank currency market. in october 2009, the attorney general of the state of california commenced an action against state street bank under the california false claims act and california business and professional code relating to indirect foreign exchange services state street bank provides to certain california state pension plans. the california attorney general has asserted that the rates at which these plans executed indirect foreign exchange transactions were not consistent with the terms of the applicable custody contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, state street bank made false claims and engaged in unfair competition. the attorney general has asserted actual damages of $56 million for periods from 2001 to 2009 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. this action is in the discovery phase. in october 2010, we entered into a $12 million settlement with the state of washington. this settlement resolved a dispute related to the manner in which we priced some indirect foreign exchange transactions during our ten-year relationship with the state of washington. our contract with the state of washington and related disclosures to the state of washington were significantly different from those at issue in our ongoing litigation in california. we provide custody and principal foreign exchange services to government pension plans in other jurisdictions. since the commencement of the litigation in california, attorneys general and other governmental authorities from a number of jurisdictions, as well as u.s. attorney offices, the u.s. department of labor and the u.s. securities and exchange commission, have requested information or issued subpoenas in connection 19 table of contents with inquiries into the pricing of our foreign exchange services. given that many of these inquiries are ongoing, we can provide no assurance that litigation or regulatory proceedings will not be brought against us or as to the nature of the claims that might be alleged. such litigation or proceedings may be brought on theories similar to those advanced in california or washington or on alternative theories of liability. we offer indirect foreign exchange services such as those we offer to the california pension plans to a broad range of custody clients in the u.s. and internationally. we have responded and are responding to information requests from a number of clients concerning our indirect foreign exchange rates. a putative class action was filed in massachusetts in february 2011 that seeks unspecified damages on behalf of all custodial clients that executed indirect foreign exchange transactions through state street since 1998. a second putative class action was filed in massachusetts in november 2011 that seeks unspecified damages on behalf of all erisa clients that executed indirect foreign exchange transactions with state street since 2001. the putative class actions allege, among other things, that the rates at which state street executed foreign currency trades constituted an unfair and deceptive practice, a breach of a duty of loyalty and a breach of our obligations under erisa. we can provide no assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceedings in california or massachusetts, or whether any other proceedings might be commenced against us by clients or government authorities. for example, the new york attorney general and the united states attorney for the southern district of new york, each of which has brought indirect foreign exchange-related legal proceedings against one of our competitors, have made inquiries to us about our indirect foreign exchange execution methods. we expect that plaintiffs will seek to recover their share of all or a portion of the revenue that we have recorded from providing indirect foreign exchange services. our total revenue worldwide from such services was approximately $331 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, approximately $336 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, approximately $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 and approximately $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. although we did not calculate revenue for such services prior to 2006 in the same manner, and have refined our calculation method over time, we believe that the amount of our revenue for such services has been of a similar or lesser order of magnitude for many years. we cannot predict the outcome of any pending proceedings or whether a court, in the event of an adverse resolution, would consider our revenue to be the appropriate measure of damages. the resolution of pending proceedings or any that may be filed or threatened could have a material adverse effect on our future consolidated results of operations and our reputation. our revenue calculations related to indirect foreign exchange services reflect a judgment concerning the relationship between the rates we charge for indirect foreign exchange execution and indicative interbank market rates near in time to execution. our trading revenue depends upon the difference between the rates we set for indirect trades and indicative interbank market rates on the date when trades settle. the heightened regulatory and media scrutiny on indirect foreign exchange services could result in pressure on our pricing of these services or in clients reducing the volume of trades executed through these services, each of which would have an adverse impact on the revenue from, and profitability of, these services for us. some custody clients or their investment managers have elected to change the manner in which they execute foreign exchange with us or have decided not to use our foreign exchange execution methods. for the year ended december 31, 2011, our revenue from indirect foreign exchange services decreased by 1% compared to the year ended december 31, 2010. we expect the market, regulatory and other pressures on our indirect foreign exchange service to increase in 2012. we intend to offer our custody clients a range of execution options for their foreign exchange needs; however, the range of services, costs and profitability vary by service options. there can be no assurance that clients or investment managers who choose to use less or none of our indirect foreign exchange services, or to use alternatives to our existing indirect foreign exchange services, will choose alternatives offered by us. accordingly, our revenue from these services may decline. we may incur losses, which could be material to our financial performance in the periods incurred, arising from bankruptcy-related claims by and against lehman entities in the u.s. and the u.k. we have claims against lehman entities in bankruptcy proceedings in the u.s. and the u.k. we also have amounts that we owe to lehman entities. these claims and amounts owed arise from the resolution of 20 table of contents transactions that existed at the time the lehman entities entered bankruptcy, including foreign exchange transactions, securities lending arrangements and repurchase agreements. in the aggregate, the amounts that we believe we owe lehman entities, as reflected in our submissions in the bankruptcy proceedings, are less than our estimate of the realizable value of the claims we have asserted against lehman entities. however, we may recognize gains and losses in different periods depending in part on the timing and sequence of the resolution of the claims by us and against us in the different proceedings. in addition, the process for resolving these claims and obligations is complex and may continue for some time. while the bankruptcy courts in the u.s. have approved the majority of our claims, the process is not as advanced in the united kingdom. certain of our clients had entered into securities lending arrangements and/or repurchase agreements with lehman u.k. affiliate. in accordance with the terms of our lending program and repurchase agreement product, we have indemnified those clients against loss in connection with the resolution of these arrangements, and we have sold or taken possession of the related collateral, which included asset-backed securities. for purposes of the resolution of securities lending arrangements and repurchase agreements in the u.k. in connection with the lehman bankruptcy proceedings, we valued the asset-backed securities at their assumed liquidation values, in each case reflecting the absence of an active trading market for these securities following the bankruptcy of lehman. we subsequently recorded these assets in our consolidated statement of condition at a significantly greater value, based on relevant market conditions and our assessment of their fair value in accordance with gaap at that time. as a result of these valuation decisions, we determined that there was a shortfall in the collateral supporting the repurchase agreements, and we applied the excess collateral supporting lehman obligations under securities lending. the administrators for lehman u.k. affiliate have and may continue to challenge our claims. we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, with respect to prime broker arrangements we had with lehman entities. in our capacity as manager and trustee, we appointed lehman as prime broker for certain common trust funds. of the seven investors in these funds, we have entered into settlements with three clients (one of which was entered into after the client obtained a 42 million judgment from a dutch court), and three others have ongoing litigation against us. the aggregate net asset value, at september 15, 2008 (the date two of the lehman entities involved entered into insolvency proceedings), of cash and securities held by lehman entities attributable to the four clients with whom we have not entered into settlement agreements was approximately $143 million. the claims of these clients should be reduced by the value of the distributions from the lehman entities to these common trust funds, which amounts cannot be determined at this time. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these proceedings, and an adverse resolution could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the fiscal period or periods in which resolved. our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our clients incur substantial losses in investment pools where we act as agent. our management of collective investment pools on behalf of clients exposes us to reputational risk and, in some cases, operational losses. if our clients incur substantial losses in these pools, particularly in money market funds (where there is a general market expectation that net asset value will not drop below $1.00 per share), receive redemptions as in-kind distributions rather than in cash, or experience significant under-performance relative to the market or our competitors products, our reputation could be significantly harmed, which harm could significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated business units. because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple investment pools to achieve scale, we face the risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in the aggregate. while it is currently not our intention, any decision by us to provide financial support to our investment pools to support our reputation in circumstances where we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so would potentially result in the recognition of significant losses and could in certain situations require us to consolidate the investment pools onto our consolidated statement of condition. a failure or inability to provide such support could damage our reputation among current and prospective clients. 21 table of contents the net asset values of our collateral pools have been below $1.00 per unit. our securities lending operations consist of two components: a direct lending program for third-party investment managers and asset owners, the collateral pools for which we refer to as agency lending collateral pools; and investment funds with a broad range of investment objectives that are managed by ssga and engage in securities lending, which we refer to as ssga lending funds. in 2007, the net asset value of the assets held by the agency lending collateral pools declined below $1.00 per unit. the agency lending collateral pools continued to transact purchases and redemptions at a constant net asset value of $1.00 per unit even though the market value of the collateral pools portfolio holdings, determined using pricing from third-party pricing sources, has been below $1.00 per unit. this difference between the transaction value used for purchase and redemption activity and the market value of the collateral pools assets arose, depending upon the collateral pool, at various points since the commencement of the financial crisis in mid-2007 and has declined but persisted throughout 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. in 2008, we imposed restrictions on cash redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools. in december 2010, in order to increase participants control over the degree of their participation in the lending program, we divided certain agency lending collateral pools into liquidity pools, from which clients can obtain cash redemptions, and duration pools, which are restricted and operate as liquidating accounts. depending upon the agency lending collateral pool, the percentage of the collateral pool assets that were represented by interests in the liquidity pool varied as of such division date from 58% to 84%. as of december 31, 2011, the aggregate net asset value of the duration pools was approximately $3.3 billion, and as of such date the return obligations of participants in the agency lending program represented by interests in the duration pools exceeded the market value of the assets in the duration pools by approximately $198 million, which amount is expected to be eliminated as the assets in the duration pools mature or amortize. we may incur losses, which could be material to our consolidated results of operations in the period incurred, as a result of our past practice of effecting purchase and redemptions of interests in the collateral pools based upon a consistent $1.00 per unit net asset value during periods when those pools had a market value of less than $1.00 per unit. we believe that our practice of effecting purchases and redemptions of units of the collateral pools at $1.00 per unit, notwithstanding that the underlying portfolios have a market value of less than $1.00 per unit, complied with the terms of our unregistered cash collateral pools and was in the best interests of participants in the agency lending program and the ssga lending funds. we continued this practice until june 30, 2010 for the ssga lending funds and until the end of 2010 for the agency lending collateral pools for a number of reasons, including that none of the securities in the cash collateral pools were in default or considered to be materially impaired, and that the collective investment funds restricted withdrawals. although the market value of the assets in the collateral pools has improved since 2008, a portion of these assets are floating rate instruments with several years of remaining maturity; consequently, the rate of valuation improvement for the duration pools has slowed and the market value may decline again as a result of changes in market sentiment or in the credit quality of such instruments. in addition, the assets of the liquid pools are currently insufficient to satisfy in full the obligations of participants in the agency lending program to return cash collateral to borrowers. participants in the agency lending program who received units of the duration pool, or who previously received in-kind redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, could seek to assert claims against us in connection with either their loss of liquidity or unrealized mark-to-market losses. if such claims were successfully asserted, such a resolution could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. the illiquidity and volatility of global fixed-income and equity markets has affected our ability to effectively and profitably manage assets on behalf of clients and may make our products less attractive to clients. we manage assets on behalf of clients in several forms, including in collective investment pools, money market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term 22 table of contents investment funds. in addition to the impact on the market value of client portfolios, at various times since 2007 the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from our pooled investment vehicles. within our asset management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds that generally offer our clients the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally daily or monthly. this feature requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably anticipated liquidity requirements of our clients. during the market disruption that accelerated following the bankruptcy of lehman, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short- and long-term fixed-income securities, declined dramatically, and providing liquidity to meet all client demands in these investment pools without adversely affecting the return to non-withdrawing clients became more difficult. for clients that have invested directly or indirectly in certain of the collateral pools and have sought to terminate their participation in lending programs, we have required, in accordance with the applicable client arrangements, that these withdrawals from the collateral pools take the form of partial in-kind distributions of securities. in the case of ssga funds that engage in securities lending, we implemented limitations, which were terminated in 2010, on the portion of an investor interest in such fund that may be withdrawn during any month, although such limitations do not apply to participant-directed activity in defined contribution plans. if higher than normal demands for liquidity from our clients were to return to post-lehman-bankruptcy levels or increase, managing the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools could become more difficult and, as a result, we may elect to support the liquidity of these pools. if such liquidity problems were to re-occur, our relationships with our clients may be adversely affected; we could, in certain circumstances, be required to consolidate the investment pools, levels of redemption activity could increase and our consolidated results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected. in addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and selling the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, if at all, may then be difficult. alternatively, although we have no such obligations or arrangements currently in place, we have in the past guaranteed, and may in the future guarantee, liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a fund, and making a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own liquidity and financial condition. because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity demands of our clients. the extreme volatility in the equity markets has led to potential for the return on passive and quantitative products deviating from their target returns. the temporary closures of securities exchanges in certain markets create a risk that client redemptions in pooled investment vehicles may result in significant tracking error and under-performance relative to stated benchmarks. any failure of the pools to meet redemption requests or to under-perform relative to similar products offered by our competitors could harm our business and our reputation. our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. our relationship with many of our clients is predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet client expectations and other issues with respect to one or more of our businesses, counterparties, clients or vendors could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain clients or our sources of funding for the same or other businesses. preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems, procedures and relationships that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and client expectations. if any of these developments has a material effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. for example, in the latter part of 2011, our transition management revenue 23 table of contents was adversely affected by compliance issues in our u.k. business, the reputational impact of which may adversely affect our revenue from transition management in 2012. similar or other reputational effects in this or other businesses could similarly or more significantly affect our business or financial performance. cost shifting to non-u.s. jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings. we actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations, including by forming joint ventures and by establishing operations in lower cost locations, such as poland, india, the philippines and china, and by outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions. this effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these business operations, as well as the relevant macroeconomic, political and similar risks generally involved in doing business in those jurisdictions. the increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. during periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exist regarding the continuity of a high level of service delivery. the extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be impacted by regulatory and client acceptance issues. such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost locations. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems could result in significant costs and reputational damage. our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure, both internal and external, to record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions and other data, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets. during 2011 and 2010, several financial services firms suffered successful computer systems hacking launched domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data and reputational harm. we, like other financial services firms, will continue to face increasing cyber security threats. any interruptions, delays, breakdowns or breach, including as a result of cyber security breaches, of our, or of our counterparties or business partners , information technology infrastructure, including improper employee actions, could result in significant costs and exposures to us, including regulatory fines, loss of confidential, personal or proprietary information and damage to our reputation, and they may also jeopardize our ability to perform our services to clients. it may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. we may be unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively, which may allow competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. to the extent that we do not protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, other parties, including former employees, with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others advantage. in addition, we may infringe upon claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. we may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. the intellectual property of an acquired business may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. however, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent upon licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated. competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and/or retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain 24 table of contents them, particularly in light of uncertainty concerning evolving compensation restrictions applicable, or which may become applicable, to banks and that potentially are not applicable to other financial services firms. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, their years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely affect our clients perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates or to provide other services to them. we are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. the markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. these markets are changing as a result of new and evolving laws and regulations applicable to financial services institutions. regulatory-driven market changes cannot always be anticipated, and may adversely affect the demand for, and profitability of, the products and services that we offer. in addition, new market entrants and competitors may address changes in the markets more rapidly than we do, or may provide clients with a more attractive offering of products and services, adversely affecting our business. we have also experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. many of our businesses compete with other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment advisors, broker-dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. ongoing consolidation within the financial services industry could pose challenges in the markets we serve, including potentially increased downward pricing pressure across our businesses. some of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do. in some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. these competitors are in some instances significant clients, and the retention of these clients involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service quality. the ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. many of our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our client after a short notice period. in addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, client pricing reviews, and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our products and services. acquisitions, strategic alliances and divestiture pose risks for our business. as part of our business strategy, we acquire complementary businesses and technologies, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and divest portions of our business. in 2011, we completed our acquisitions of bank of ireland asset management, or biam; complementa investment-controlling ag, or complementa; and pulse trading, inc., or pulse. also during 2011, we continued the integration of our 2010 acquisitions of intesa sanpaolo securities services business and mourant international finance administration, or mifa. we undertake transactions of varying sizes such as these to, among other reasons, expand our geographic footprint, access new clients, technologies or services, develop closer relationships with our business partners, efficiently deploy capital or leverage cost savings or other financial opportunities. we may not achieve the expected benefits of these transactions, which could result in increased costs, lowered revenues, ineffective deployment of capital and diminished competitive position or reputation. transactions of this nature also involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, managerial, operational and employment challenges, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. for example, the businesses that we acquire or our strategic alliances may under-perform relative to the price paid or the resources committed by us, we may not achieve anticipated cost savings or we may otherwise be adversely affected by acquisition-related charges. further, past acquisitions, including the acquisitions of the intesa securities services business, mifa, biam, complementa and pulse, have resulted in the recording of goodwill and other significant intangible assets on our consolidated statement of 25 table of contents condition. these assets are not eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital under current proposals, and we may be required to record impairment in our consolidated statement of income in future periods if we determine that we will not realize the value of these assets. through our acquisitions we may also assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. while in most of our transactions we seek to mitigate these risks through, among other things, due diligence and indemnification provisions, these or other risk mitigants we put in place may not be sufficient to address these liabilities and contingencies. various regulatory approvals or consents are generally required prior to closing of acquisitions, which may include approvals of the federal reserve and other domestic and non-u.s. regulatory authorities. these regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms that materially affect the terms of the transaction or our ability to capture some of the opportunities presented by the transaction. any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction. some acquisitions we announce may not be completed, if we do not receive the required regulatory approvals, if regulatory approvals are significantly delayed or if other closing conditions are not satisfied. the integration of our acquisitions results in risks to our business and other uncertainties. the integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. integration activities are complicated and time consuming. we may not be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service offerings, as anticipated, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related revenue growth or cost savings. we also face the risk of being unable to retain, or cross-sell our products or services to, the clients of acquired companies. acquisitions of investment servicing businesses entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in client dissatisfaction and defection. clients of asset servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors of our non-custody businesses. the loss of some of these clients or a significant reduction in revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, could adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions. with any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients or employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. the introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and resources. substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from our clients and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a timely manner at competitive prices. regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives, vendor relationships and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our clients. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, as well as on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. long-term contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk. we enter into long-term contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing services, primarily for conversions, to clients, including services 26 table of contents related but not limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management and information technology development. these arrangements generally set forth our fee schedule for the term of the contract and, absent a change in service requirements, do not permit us to re-price the contract for changes in our costs or for market pricing. the long-term contracts for these relationships require, in some cases, considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over the term of the contracts. the profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services, efficiently assume our contractual responsibilities in a timely manner, control our costs and maintain the relationship with the client for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. our estimate of the profitability of these arrangements can be adversely affected by declines in the assets under the clients management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or client-specific issues. in addition, the profitability of these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross-sell additional services to these clients, and we may be unable to do so. in addition, performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. our failure to meet specified service levels may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early termination of the contracts by the client. if the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see our revenue decline. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. we may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. we have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. while we currently believe that our risk management process is effective, we cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the internal and external, including service provider, risks in our various businesses. among risks realized by other financial institutions resulting from inadequate controls is the risk that an individual in a position to engage in trading on the institution behalf, or on behalf of the institution clients, exceeds authorized limits or causes trading losses to be unrecognized. the financial and reputational impact of such control failures can be significant. in addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. we may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our businesses or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes. if our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, our businesses, our counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations. operational risk is inherent in all of our business activities. as a leading provider of services to institutional investors, we provide a broad array of services, including research, investment management, trading services and investment servicing that give rise to operational risk. in addition, these services generate a broad array of complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. we face the risk that the policies, procedures and systems we have established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, be inadequate or become outdated. we also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or monitoring mechanisms, service provider processes or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our future consolidated results of operations. operational errors that result in us remitting funds to a failing or bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses. we may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. in addition, our clients, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. should these events affect us, or the clients, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. when we record balance sheet reserves for 27 table of contents probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. new accounting standards, including the potential adoption of international financial reporting standards, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the financial accounting standards board, the international accounting standards board or the sec, can potentially affect our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. these changes are difficult to predict, and can materially affect how we record and report our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and other financial information. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of prior period consolidated financial statements. changes in tax laws, rules or regulations, challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, and changes in the composition of our pre-tax earnings may increase our effective tax rate and thus adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. our businesses can be directly or indirectly affected by new tax legislation, the expiration of existing tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. the u.s. federal government, state governments and jurisdictions around the world continue to review proposals to amend tax laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business that could have a negative impact on our after-tax earnings. in addition, the expiration at the end of 2011 of certain u.s. tax laws that favorably affected the taxation of our overseas operations could begin to affect the results of those operations by the end of 2012. although these u.s. tax laws have previously expired and been re-enacted, it is uncertain whether they will be re-enacted again. in the normal course of our business, we are subject to review by u.s. and non-u.s. tax authorities. a review by any such authority could result in an increase in our recorded tax liability. in addition to the aforementioned risks, our effective tax rate is dependent on the nature and geographic composition of our pre-tax earnings and could be negatively affected by changes in these factors. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects. our businesses and relationships with clients are dependent upon our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our clients trade secrets and confidential information (including client transactional data and personal data about our employees, our clients and our clients clients). unauthorized access to such information may occur, resulting in theft, loss or other misappropriation. any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive positions, our relationships with our clients and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries and enforcement, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs. the quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in imprecise risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions. we use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our businesses. as an input to our overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, operational risk, interest rate risk and business risk we face. during the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we sometimes use models to measure the value of asset and liability positions for which reliable market prices are not available. we also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading activities, hedging, asset management and liability management and whether to change business strategy. in all of these uses, errors in the underlying model or model assumptions, or inadequate model 28 table of contents assumptions, could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences. because of our widespread usage of models, potential errors in models pose an ongoing risk to us. additionally, we may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. our measurement methodologies rely upon many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations we rely on may not continue to be relevant. consequently, the measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect those changes. while our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have inadequate capital to conduct our businesses. we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen events, including terrorist attacks, the emergence of a pandemic or acts of embezzlement. acts of terrorism or the emergence of a pandemic could significantly affect our business. we have instituted disaster recovery and continuity plans to address risks from terrorism and pandemic; however, forecasting or addressing all potential contingencies is not possible for events of this nature. acts of terrorism, either targeted or broad in scope, could damage our physical facilities, harm our employees and disrupt our operations. a pandemic, or concern about a possible pandemic, could lead to operational difficulties and impair our ability to manage our business. acts of terrorism and pandemics could also negatively affect our clients, counterparties and service providers, as well as result in disruptions in general economic activity and the financial markets. terrorism may also take the form of the theft or misappropriation of property, confidential information or financial assets. due to our role as a financial services institution, our businesses are already subject to similar risks of theft, misappropriation and embezzlement with respect to our and our clients property, information and assets. our employees and contractors and other partners have access to our facilities and internal systems and may seek to create the opportunity to engage in these activities. in the event our controls and procedures to prevent theft, misappropriation or embezzlement fail or are circumvented, our business would be negatively affected by, among other things, the related financial losses, diminished reputation and threat of litigation and regulatory inquiry and investigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information set forth in the market risk section of management discussion and analysis, included under item 7, is incorporated by reference herein.