risk factors k- 13 risk factors," that the company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. although the company believes it has been prudent in developing its plans and the underlying assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements which speak only as of the date this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission. the company undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information included in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in expectations or otherwise. tiffany &amp; co. k- 2 table of contents part i item 1. business. general history of business tiffany &amp; co. (the "registrant") is a holding company that operates through its subsidiary companies (collectively, the "company"). the registrant's principal subsidiary is tiffany and company ("tiffany"). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany's business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant's common stock in 1987. the registrant, through its subsidiaries, sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. financial information about industry segments the company's segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 is reported in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data - note q - segment information." narrative description of business all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. maintenance of the tiffany &amp; co. brand the tiffany &amp; co. brand (the "brand") is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the company. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see "trademarks" below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; "classic" product positioning; distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany &amp; co. blue box); and sophisticated style and romance. tiffany's business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the brand, such as the following: maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory and to accept reduced overall gross margins; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range; to provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals; elegant stores in the best "high street" and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the brand's luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands; in-store display practices enable tiffany to showcase fine jewelry in a manner consistent with the brand's positioning but require sufficient space; the classic positioning of much of tiffany's product line supports the brand, but limits the display space that can be allocated to new product introductions; tiffany's packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the brand but is expensive; and tiffany &amp; co. k- 3 table of contents a significant amount of advertising is required to both reinforce the brand's association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and earnings and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, advertising or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if the tradeoff between sales and earnings is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and may in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable distribution and marketing initiatives. reportable segments americas sales in the americas were 48% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , while sales in the u.s. represented 88% of net sales in the americas. retail sales. retail sales in the americas are transacted in 121 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2014 included in parentheses): the u.s. (94), canada (12), mexico (10) and brazil (5). included within these totals are 12 company-operated stores located within various department stores in canada and mexico. internet and catalog sales . the company distributes a selection of its products in the u.s. and canada through the websites at www.tiffany.com and www.tiffany.ca . to a lesser extent, sales are also generated through catalogs that the company distributes to its proprietary list of customers in the u.s. and canada. business-to-business sales. sales executives call on business clients, primarily in the u.s., selling products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market, including trophies and items designed for the particular customer. purchases may also be made through the company's website at www.tiffany.com/business . price allowances are given to business account holders for certain purchases. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in markets in the central/south american and caribbean regions. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. asia-pacific sales in asia-pacific represented 23% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , while sales in greater china represented more than half of asia-pacific's net sales. retail sales. retail sales in asia-pacific are transacted in 72 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2014 included in parentheses): china (26), korea (14), hong kong (9), taiwan (8), australia (6), singapore (5), macau (2) and malaysia (2). included within these totals are 24 company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in australia through its website at www.tiffany.com.au . tiffany &amp; co. k- 4 table of contents wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in certain markets. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. japan sales in japan represented 14% of worldwide net sales in 2013 . retail sales. retail sales in japan are transacted in 54 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores. included within this total are 50 stores located within department stores, generating 77% of japan's net sales. there are four large department store groups in japan. the company operates tiffany &amp; co. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at january 31, 2014 included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi (14), j. front retailing co. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (9), takashimaya (9) and millennium retailing co. (sogo and seibu department stores) (4). the company also operates 14 stores in other department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in japan through its website at www.tiffany.co.jp . business-to-business sales. products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed are sold to business customers. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in japan. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. europe sales in europe represented 12% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , while sales in the united kingdom ("u.k.") represented more than 40% of european net sales. retail sales. retail sales in europe are transacted in 37 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2014 included in parentheses): the u.k. (10), germany (7), italy (7), france (4), spain (2), switzerland (2), austria (1), belgium (1), the czech republic (1), ireland (1) and the netherlands (1). included within these totals are seven company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in the u.k., austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain through its websites, which are accessible through www.tiffany.com . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in europe. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. other other consists of all non-reportable segments, including: (i) retail sales and wholesale distribution in the emerging markets region; (ii) wholesale sales of diamonds; and (iii) licensing agreements. emerging markets region. since july 2012, retail sales have been transacted in five company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in the united arab emirates ("u.a.e.") and, beginning in february 2014, in one company-operated store in russia. additionally, selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in certain markets primarily in the middle east, and through january 2014 in russia. such wholesale sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. tiffany &amp; co. k- 5 table of contents wholesale sales of diamonds. the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for polishing and further processing. some rough diamonds so purchased, and a small percentage of diamonds so polished, are found not to be suitable for tiffany jewelry; those diamonds are sold to third parties. management's objective from such sales is to recoup its original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on those transactions. licensing agreements. the company receives earnings from a licensing agreement with luxottica group for the distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand eyewear. the licensing agreement with the swatch group ltd. and one of its affiliates (together, the "swatch group") for tiffany &amp; co. brand watches was deemed terminated as of march 1, 2013. see "item 3. legal proceedings" for additional information concerning the swatch group. the earnings received from licensing agreements represented less than 1% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . expansion of operations management regularly evaluates potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores with a view to the demographics of the area to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany &amp; co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a significant number of opportunities remaining in new and existing markets that will meet the requirements for a tiffany &amp; co. location in the future. the following chart details the number of tiffany &amp; co. retail locations operated by the company since 2003: americas year: u.s. canada &amp; latin america asia-pacific japan europe emerging markets total 2003 51 7 22 50 11 141 2004 55 7 24 53 12 151 2005 59 7 25 50 13 154 2006 64 9 28 52 14 167 2007 70 10 34 53 17 184 2008 76 10 39 57 24 206 2009 79 12 45 57 27 220 2010 84 12 52 56 29 233 2011 87 15 58 55 32 247 2012 91 24 66 55 34 5 275 2013 94 27 72 54 37 5 289 as part of its long-term strategy to open additional stores, management plans to add 13 company-operated stores and close four existing stores in 2014: opening four in the americas, five in asia-pacific, two in japan, and one each in europe and russia, while closing one each in the americas, asia-pacific, japan and the u.a.e. as noted above, the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries. sales transacted on those websites accounted for 6% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . the company periodically invests in enhancing these websites and intends to expand its e-commerce sites to additional countries in the future. tiffany &amp; co. k- 6 table of contents products the company's principal product category is jewelry, which represented 92%, 90% and 91% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . the company offers an extensive selection of tiffany &amp; co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent "named" designers (see "material designer license" below). the company also sells timepieces, leather goods, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances and accessories, which represented, in total, 7%, 8% and 8% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . the remaining 1% - 2% of worldwide net sales were attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings received from third-party licensing agreements. sales by reportable segment of tiffany &amp; co. jewelry by category 2013 % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 23 % 27 % 20 % 19 % 23 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 36 % 47 % 25 % 30 % fashion jewelry c 43 % 35 % 26 % 53 % 40 % 2012 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 20 % 24 % 17 % 16 % 20 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 37 % 48 % 26 % 30 % fashion jewelry c 45 % 37 % 28 % 54 % 41 % 2011 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 19 % 25 % 15 % 16 % 19 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 24 % 37 % 47 % 24 % 31 % fashion jewelry c 45 % 35 % 29 % 55 % 41 % a) this category includes statement, fine and solitaire jewelry (other than engagement jewelry). most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds, other gemstones or both. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 12% of sales in 2013. the average price of merchandise sold in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 in this category was approximately $4,600, $4,300 and $4,300 for total reportable segments. b) this category includes engagement rings and wedding bands marketed to brides and grooms. most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 7% of sales in 2013. the average price of merchandise sold in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 in this category was approximately $3,600, $3,500 and $3,600 for total reportable segments. tiffany &amp; co. k- 7 table of contents c) this category generally consists of non-gemstone, sterling silver (approximately 60% of the category in 2013 ), gold or rubedo metal (beginning in 2012) jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. rubedo metal is an alloy composed of copper, gold and silver which was developed by the company. the average price of merchandise sold in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 in this category was approximately $300, $295 and $280 for total reportable segments. the previously disclosed designer jewelry category, of items bearing the name of and attributed to one of the company's "named" designers: elsa peretti, paloma picasso and frank gehry, has been reclassified into the three remaining categories to conform with management's current internal analysis of product sales. advertising, marketing, public and media relations the company regularly advertises in newspapers, magazines and through digital media. public and media relations activities are also significant to the company's business. the company engages in a program of media activities and marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the brand and tiffany &amp; co. products. it also publishes its well-known blue book to showcase its high-end jewelry. in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , the company spent $247,466,000, $242,524,000 and $234,050,000, representing 6.1%, 6.4% and 6.4% of worldwide net sales in those respective years, on advertising, marketing, public and media relations, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), marketing events and other related items. in addition, management believes that the brand is enhanced by a program of charity sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. the company also makes donations to the tiffany &amp; co. foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations. the efforts of this foundation are primarily focused on environmental conservation and urban parks. trademarks the designations tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are the principal trademarks of tiffany, and also serve as tradenames. tiffany has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., as well as the tiffany blue box and the color tiffany blue for a variety of product categories and services in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that the company's worldwide trademark rights in tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related or unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to eradicate the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. tiffany has responded to internet counterfeiting by engaging investigators and counsel to monitor the internet and taking various actions to stop infringing activity, including sending cease and desist letters, initiating civil proceedings and participating in joint actions and anti-counterfeiting programs with other like-minded third party rights holders. tiffany &amp; co. k- 8 table of contents despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. name and mark for the company's products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category of use in every country of the world; for example, third parties have registered the name tiffany in the u.s. in the food services category, and in a number of foreign countries in respect of certain product categories (including, in a few countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany's rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany's foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of legal action. material designer license since 1974, tiffany has been the sole licensee for the intellectual property rights necessary to make and sell jewelry and other products designed by elsa peretti and bearing her trademarks. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 9%, 10% and 10% of the company's worldwide net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . in december 2012, tiffany entered into an amended and restated agreement (the "peretti agreement") with ms. peretti. pursuant to the peretti agreement, which largely reflects the long-standing rights and marketing and royalty obligations of the parties, ms. peretti granted tiffany an exclusive license, in all of the countries in which peretti-designed jewelry and products are currently sold, to make, have made, advertise and sell these items. ms. peretti continues to retain ownership of the copyrights for her designs and her trademarks and remains entitled to exercise approval and consultation rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of the products made in accordance with her designs. under and in accordance with the terms set forth in the peretti agreement, tiffany is required to display the licensed products in stores, to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of the licensed products, to pay royalties to ms. peretti for the licensed products sold, to maintain total on-hand and on-order inventory of non-jewelry licensed products (such as tabletop products) at approximately $8,000,000 and to take certain actions to protect the use and registration of ms. peretti's copyrights and trademarks. the peretti agreement has a term of 20 years and is binding upon ms. peretti, her heirs, estate, trustees and permitted assignees. during the term of the peretti agreement, ms. peretti may not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of her copyrights and trademarks unless the acquiring party expressly agrees with tiffany to be bound by the provisions of the peretti agreement. the peretti agreement is terminable by ms. peretti only in the event of a material breach by tiffany (subject to a cure period) or upon a change of control of tiffany or the company. it is terminable by tiffany only in the event of a material breach by ms. peretti or following an attempt by ms. peretti to revoke the exclusive license (subject, in each case, to a cure period). merchandise purchasing, manufacturing and raw materials the company produces jewelry in new york, rhode island and kentucky, and silver hollowware in rhode island. the company processes, cuts and polishes diamonds at facilities outside the u.s. in total, those manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of merchandise sold by the company. the balance, including almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third-parties. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but management does not expect that the company will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to use third-party manufacturers include product quality, gross margin, access to or mastery of various jewelry-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity and the cost of capital investments. rough and polished diamonds . of the world's largest diamond producing countries, the vast majority of diamonds purchased by the company originate from australia, botswana, canada, namibia, russia, sierra tiffany &amp; co. k- 9 table of contents leone and south africa. the company has established diamond processing operations that purchase, sort, cut and/or polish rough diamonds for its use. the company has such operations in belgium, botswana, mauritius, namibia, south africa and vietnam, and intends to establish operations in cambodia in 2014. the company's operations in botswana, namibia and south africa allow it to access rough diamond allocations reserved for local manufacturers as operations in those countries are conducted through companies in which local third-parties own minority, non-controlling interests. the company maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with these local third-parties in each of those countries; however, if circumstances warranted, the company could seek to replace its existing local partners. in order to acquire rough diamonds, the company must purchase mixed assortments of rough diamonds. it is thus necessary to knowingly purchase some rough diamonds that cannot be cut and polished to meet the company's quality standards and that must be sold to third-parties; such sales are reported in the other non-reportable segment. to make such sales, the company charges a market price and is, therefore, unable to earn a significant profit, if any, above its original cost. sales of rough diamonds in the other non-reportable segment have had and are expected to continue to have the effect of modestly reducing the company's overall gross margins. the company, from time to time, secures supplies of rough diamonds by agreeing to purchase a defined portion of a mine's output at the market price prevailing at the time of production. under such agreements, management anticipates that it will purchase approximately $200,000,000 of rough diamonds in 2014 . in addition, the company will also purchase rough diamonds from other suppliers, although it has no contractual obligations to do so. in certain instances, the company has provided loans to, or made equity investments in, mining projects in order to secure diamond supplies. the company may continue to do so. approximately 60% - 70% (by dollar value) of the polished diamonds used in jewelry is produced from rough diamonds that the company has purchased. the balance of its needs for polished diamonds is purchased from polishers or polished-diamond dealers. it is the company's intention to continue to supply the majority of its needs for diamonds by purchasing and polishing rough diamonds. the company purchases polished diamonds principally from four key vendors. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with its polished-diamond vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; but such a termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. however, were trade relations between the company and one or more of these vendors to be disrupted, the company's sales could be adversely affected in the short term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for approximately 58%, 55% and 55% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . products containing one or more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 15%, 13% and 14% of worldwide net sales in each of those years. conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of "conflict" or "blood" diamonds. these terms are used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. management believes that it is not possible in most purchasing scenarios to distinguish conflict diamonds from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including the company and nongovernment organizations, seek to exclude "conflict" or "blood" diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world's supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the kimberley process certification scheme. all rough diamonds the company buys, crossing an international border, must be accompanied by a kimberley process certificate and all trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. it is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. in addition, concerns over human rights abuses in tiffany &amp; co. k- 10 table of contents zimbabwe underscore that the aforementioned system does not control diamonds produced in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. the company has informed its vendors that it does not intend to purchase zimbabwean-produced diamonds. accordingly, the company has implemented the diamond source warranty protocol, which requires vendors to provide a warranty that loose polished diamonds were not obtained from zimbabwean mines. the diamond trading company (" dtc"). the supply and prices of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the dtc, an affiliate of the de beers group. over the past decade, the dtc's historical ability to control worldwide production has been significantly diminished due to its lower share of worldwide production, changing policies in diamond-producing countries and revised contractual arrangements with third-party mine operators. although the market share of the dtc has diminished, the dtc continues to supply a meaningful portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds. the dtc continues to exert influence on the demand for polished diamonds through the requirements it imposes on those ("sightholders") who purchase rough diamonds from the dtc. some, but not all, of the company's suppliers are dtc sightholders and it is estimated that a significant portion of the diamonds that it has purchased have had their source with the dtc. the company is a dtc sightholder for rough diamonds through its operations in belgium and its african joint ventures. worldwide availability and price of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines, the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds and levels of industry liquidity. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of both rough and polished diamonds. prices for rough diamonds do not necessarily reflect current demand for polished diamonds. sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect the company and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising spending of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. the company purchases conflict-free rough and polished fine white diamonds, in the color ranges d through i. management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in this color range in the short term but believes that, unless new mines are developed, rising demand will eventually create such a shortage, and lead to higher prices. manufactured diamonds. manufactured diamonds are produced in small but growing quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce manufactured diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of manufactured diamonds, manufactured diamonds are becoming a larger factor in the market. should manufactured diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. the company does not produce and does not intend to purchase or sell manufactured diamonds. purchases of other polished gemstones and precious metals . other polished gemstones and precious metals used in making jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources. most purchases are from suppliers with which tiffany enjoys long-standing relationships. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with other polished gemstone and precious metals vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. tiffany &amp; co. k- 11 table of contents the company purchases precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations and for use by third-party manufacturers contracted to supply tiffany merchandise. while the company may supply precious metals to a manufacturer, it cannot determine, in all circumstances, whether the finished goods provided by such manufacturer were actually produced with tiffany-supplied precious metals. additionally, not all precious metals used by third-party vendors or in the company's own manufacturing operations are sourced from a single mine or refinery. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of precious metals. the company believes that there are numerous alternative sources for other polished gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 60 manufacturers, most of which have long-standing relationships with the company. however, the company does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. the company does enter into written blanket purchase order agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to termination. the blanket purchase order agreements establish non-price terms by which the company may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to the company. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. the company actively seeks alternative sources for its top-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, the company may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . prior to 2007, the company arranged for the production of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches with various third-party swiss component manufacturers and assemblers. in 2007, the company entered into a 20-year license and distribution agreement (the "agreement") with the swatch group for the manufacture and distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. in december 2013, an arbitral panel deemed the agreement terminated effective march 1, 2013. see "item 3. legal proceedings" for additional information regarding the arbitration proceeding. royalties payable to the company under the agreement were not significant in any year and watches manufactured under the agreement and sold in tiffany &amp; co. stores constituted 1% of worldwide net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . the company is proceeding with plans to design, produce, market and distribute tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. the effective development and growth of this watch business will require additional resources and will involve risks and uncertainties. additionally, the continued presence in the retail market of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches produced under the agreement may negatively impact the company's sales and marketing efforts for newly produced watches. under the agreement, the swatch group has the right to sell, for two years following termination of the agreement, watches marked with the tiffany &amp; co. trademark which were on hand at the time of termination. competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. the company encounters significant competition in all product lines. some competitors specialize in just one area in which the company is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to the company and compete on the basis of that reputation. certain other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. the company competes on the basis of the brand's reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. tiffany &amp; co. k- 12 table of contents competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. the company's retail price for diamond jewelry reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the beauty of the diamonds, but which also increase the company's cost. the company competes in this market by emphasizing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2014 , the company employed an aggregate of approximately 10,600 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,200 are employed in the united states. available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany &amp; co. and other companies that electronically file materials with the sec. copies of the company's annual reports on form 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k may be obtained, free of charge, on the company's website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm . item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the company and/or the markets in which it operates. the following "risk factors" are specific to the company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the company will achieve the financial objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the company's sales. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the company's earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. tiffany &amp; co. k- 13 table of contents certain competitors may react to any declines in consumer confidence by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the company's sales, especially given the company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in greater china and anticipates significant further expansion. should the chinese economy experience an economic slowdown, the sales and profitability of stores in greater china as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists could be affected. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the company to forecast operating results. the company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) sales may decline or remain flat in the company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have a material adverse effect on sales and earnings and would result in higher inventories. (iii) the company conducts significant operations outside the united states, and the risks of doing business internationally could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. the company generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the united states. it also has foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. in addition, the company maintains investments in, and provides loans to, certain foreign suppliers. as a result, the company is subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; potential negative consequences from changes in taxation policies or currency restructurings; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements; economic instability in foreign countries; the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many jurisdictions; uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and inventory risk exposures related to providing raw materials to foreign vendors. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business. tiffany &amp; co. k- 14 table of contents (iv) regional instability and conflict could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises such as military actions, terrorist activities, natural disasters, government regulations or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions and local consumer spending where the company operates retail stores, could adversely affect its sales and earnings. (v) weakening foreign currencies may negatively affect the company's sales and profitability. the company operates retail stores in various countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in 2013 , sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented more than half of the company's net sales and earnings from operations, of which japan represented 14% of the company's net sales and 27% of the company's earnings from operations before other operating expenses. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar would require the company to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a substantial weakening of foreign currencies would result in reduced sales and profitability. the results of operations of the company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. in addition, a weakening in foreign currency exchange rates may create disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the company operates retail stores which could adversely affect its net sales and profitability. (vi) volatile global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company's liquidity and capital resources. the global economy and the credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years. any prolonged economic weakness could have an adverse effect on the company's cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing and could make it more difficult for the company to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. in addition, any significant deterioration in the equity markets could negatively affect the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. (vii) changes in the company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the company's profitability. the company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the company's geographical regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. if the company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability. (viii) changes in costs of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the company's jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. acquiring diamonds is difficult because of limited supply and the company may not be tiffany &amp; co. k- 15 table of contents able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors, clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. a significant change in the costs or supply of these commodities could adversely affect the company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. if trade relationships between the company and one or more of its significant vendors were disrupted, the company's sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. (ix) the company may be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. the company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if the company cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and earnings will be jeopardized. in japan, many of the tiffany &amp; co. stores are located in department stores generating 77% of the net sales in japan and 11% of worldwide net sales in 2013 . in the past decade, the japanese department store industry has, in general, suffered declining sales and there is a risk that such financial difficulties will force further consolidations or store closings. should one or more japanese department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a tiffany &amp; co. store, the company's sales and earnings would be reduced while alternative premises were being obtained. the company's commercial relationships with department stores in japan, and their respective abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to be substantial factors affecting the company's business in japan. (x) the value of the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement. the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the company's business, and the company takes appropriate action to protect them. the company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related goods or services and the company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. notwithstanding the general success of the company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in most markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining the company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the tiffany &amp; co. brand would result in lost sales and earnings. (xi) the company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand's association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of the company's business. the company's expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as tiffany &amp; co. k- 16 table of contents market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this would result in lower sales and earnings. in addition, adverse publicity regarding tiffany &amp; co. products or in respect of the company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industry, and any media coverage resulting there from, may harm the tiffany &amp; co. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the tiffany &amp; co. brand and the industry, and negatively affect the company's results of operations. the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. (xii) if diamond mining and exploration companies, to which the company or its subsidiaries have provided financing, were to experience financial difficulties, those funds might not be recovered, which would reduce the company's earnings and could result in losing access to the mine's output. the company and its subsidiaries may, from time to time, provide financing to diamond mining and exploration companies in order to obtain rights to purchase mining output. as of january 31, 2014 , the carrying amount of receivables was $72,994,000 under these arrangements, of which more than $50,000,000 was related to one mining and exploration company. mining operations are inherently risky, and there is no assurance that the diamond mining and exploration companies under these arrangements will be able to meet their obligations to the company. if a diamond mining or exploration company defaults under these financings, the company would be required to take a period charge in respect of all or a portion of the financing, which would affect the company's earnings. additionally, the company could lose access to the mine's output under the related supply agreements. the company has experienced such situations in the past. (xiii) a significant privacy breach of the company's information systems could affect its business. the protection of customer, employee and company data is important to the company, and the company's customers and employees expect that their personal information will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in the various jurisdictions in which the company does business. although the company has developed and implemented systems and processes that are designed to protect personal and company information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. additionally, the company's increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e. cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee information, could expose the company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage the company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand and could result in lost sales, sizable fines, significant breach-notification costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. (xiv) failure to successfully implement or make changes to information systems could disrupt or negatively impact the company's business. in the ordinary course of business, the company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. the company has commenced a multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. these system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. while the company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. any such disruptions, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems such tiffany &amp; co. k- 17 table of contents as those referenced above, could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and could also affect the company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand. (xv) the loss, or a prolonged disruption in the operation, of the company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations. the company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. although the company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. (xvi) the company is engaged in efforts to design, produce, market and distribute tiffany &amp; co. brand watches; however, there is no assurance that the company will be able to effectively develop its new watch business or that such business will be successful. the company is proceeding with plans to design, produce, market and distribute tiffany &amp; co. brand watches through a swiss subsidiary. the effective development and growth of a watch business requires additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties, including: (i) upfront and ongoing expenditures, many of which will precede sales to customers; (ii) the need to hire highly specialized and experienced personnel; (iii) new regulatory requirements; (iv) dependence on unfamiliar supply chains and relatively small supply partners; (v) production and distribution inefficiencies; and (vi) the need to integrate operations with the company's existing business models. in addition, as with any new business, the company will be competing with businesses with stronger market positions and will be required to invest significant resources in marketing to build customer awareness and to establish product differentiation. despite the company's efforts, there is, however, no assurance that the company will be able to effectively develop its new watch business or that such business will be successful in growing the company's revenues or enhancing its profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk k- 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk the company may use foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset a portion of the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the term of all outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2014 ranged from less than one month to 12 months. at january 31, 2014 and 2013 , the fair value of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forward and put option contracts were net assets of $6,453,000 and $18,968,000, respectively. at january 31, 2014 , a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $10,000,000. precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations through the use of forward contracts in order to minimize the effect of volatility in precious metal prices. the maximum term over which the company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions is 12 months. at january 31, 2014 and 2013 , the fair value of the company's outstanding precious metal derivative instruments were net liabilities of $1,599,000 and net assets of $362,000, respectively. at january 31, 2014 , a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $5,000,000. tiffany &amp; co. k- 44 table of contentsrisk factors k- 13 risk factors" for a discussion of these and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by applicable law or regulation. tiffany &amp; co. k- 2 table of contents part i item 1. business. general history of business tiffany &amp; co. (the "registrant") is a holding company that operates through its subsidiary companies (collectively, the "company"). the registrant's principal subsidiary is tiffany and company ("tiffany"). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany's business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant's common stock in 1987. the registrant, through its subsidiaries, sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. financial information about industry segments the company's segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 is reported in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data - note p - segment information." narrative description of business all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. maintenance of the tiffany &amp; co. brand the tiffany &amp; co. brand (the "brand") is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the company. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see "trademarks" below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; "classic" product positioning; distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany &amp; co. blue box); and sophisticated style and romance. tiffany's business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the brand, such as the following: maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory and to accept reduced overall gross margins; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range; to provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals; elegant stores in the best "high street" and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the brand's luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands; in-store display practices enable tiffany to showcase fine jewelry in a manner consistent with the brand's positioning but require sufficient space; the classic positioning of much of tiffany's product line supports the brand, but limits the display space that can be allocated to new product introductions; tiffany's packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the brand but is expensive; and tiffany &amp; co. k- 3 table of contents a significant amount of advertising is required to both reinforce the brand's association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and earnings and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, advertising or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if the tradeoff between sales and earnings is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and may in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable distribution and marketing initiatives. reportable segments americas sales in the americas were 48% of worldwide net sales in 2014 , while sales in the u.s. represented 88% of net sales in the americas. retail sales. retail sales in the americas are transacted in 122 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2015 included in parentheses): the u.s. (95), canada (11), mexico (11) and brazil (5). included within these totals are 12 company-operated stores located within various department stores in canada and mexico. internet and catalog sales . the company distributes a selection of its products in the u.s. and canada through the websites at www.tiffany.com and www.tiffany.ca . to a lesser extent, sales are also generated through catalogs that the company distributes to its proprietary list of customers in the u.s. and canada. business-to-business sales. sales executives call on business clients, primarily in the u.s., selling products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market, including trophies and items designed for the particular customer. purchases may also be made through the company's website at www.tiffany.com/business . price allowances are given to business account holders for certain purchases. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in markets in the central/south american and caribbean regions. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. asia-pacific sales in asia-pacific represented 24% of worldwide net sales in 2014 , while sales in greater china represented more than half of asia-pacific's net sales. retail sales. retail sales in asia-pacific are transacted in 73 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2015 included in parentheses): china (26), korea (14), hong kong (9), taiwan (8), australia (7), singapore (5), macau (2) and malaysia (2). included within these totals are 24 company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in australia through its website at www.tiffany.com.au . tiffany &amp; co. k- 4 table of contents wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in certain markets. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. japan sales in japan represented 13% of worldwide net sales in 2014 . retail sales. retail sales in japan are transacted in 56 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores. included within this total are 51 stores located within department stores, generating 75% of japan's net sales. there are four large department store groups in japan. the company operates tiffany &amp; co. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at january 31, 2015 included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi (14), j. front retailing co. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (9), takashimaya (9) and seven &amp; i holding co., ltd. (sogo and seibu department stores) (5). the company also operates 14 stores in other department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in japan through its website at www.tiffany.co.jp . business-to-business sales. products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed are sold to business customers. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in japan. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. europe sales in europe represented 12% of worldwide net sales in 2014 , while sales in the united kingdom ("u.k.") represented more than 40% of european net sales. retail sales. retail sales in europe are transacted in 38 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2015 included in parentheses): the u.k. (10), germany (7), italy (7), france (5), spain (2), switzerland (2), austria (1), belgium (1), the czech republic (1), ireland (1) and the netherlands (1). included within these totals are seven company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in the u.k., austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain through its websites, which are accessible through www.tiffany.com . other other consists of all non-reportable segments, including: (i) retail sales and wholesale distribution in the emerging markets region (which represented approximately 75% of other net sales in 2014); (ii) wholesale sales of diamonds; and (iii) licensing agreements. emerging markets region. retail sales are transacted in five company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in the united arab emirates ("u.a.e.") and, beginning in february 2014, one company-operated store in russia. additionally, selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in certain emerging markets (primarily in the middle east and, through january 2014, in russia). such wholesale sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. wholesale sales of diamonds. the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for polishing and further processing. some rough diamonds so purchased, and a small percentage of diamonds so polished, are found not to be suitable for the company's needs; those diamonds are sold to third parties. tiffany &amp; co. k- 5 table of contents management's objective from such sales is to recoup its original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on those transactions. licensing agreement. the company receives earnings from a licensing agreement with luxottica group for the distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand eyewear. the earnings received from this licensing agreement represented less than 1% of worldwide net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . expansion of operations management regularly evaluates potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores with a view to the demographics of the area to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany &amp; co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a significant number of opportunities remaining in new and existing markets that will meet the requirements for a tiffany &amp; co. location in the future. the following chart details the number of tiffany &amp; co. retail locations operated by the company since 2004: americas year: u.s. canada &amp; latin america asia-pacific japan europe emerging markets total 2004 55 7 24 53 12 151 2005 59 7 25 50 13 154 2006 64 9 28 52 14 167 2007 70 10 34 53 17 184 2008 76 10 39 57 24 206 2009 79 12 45 57 27 220 2010 84 12 52 56 29 233 2011 87 15 58 55 32 247 2012 91 24 66 55 34 5 275 2013 94 27 72 54 37 5 289 2014 95 27 73 56 38 6 295 as part of its long-term strategy to expand its store base, management plans to add approximately 12 - 15, net company-operated stores in 2015, with the majority of expansion planned in asia-pacific and the balance in the americas and europe. as noted above, the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries as well as informational websites in several additional countries. sales transacted on those websites accounted for 6% of worldwide net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . the company invests in ongoing website enhancements and intends to evaluate expanding its e-commerce sites to additional countries in the future. products the company's principal product category is jewelry, which represented 92%, 92% and 90% of worldwide net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . the company offers an extensive selection of tiffany &amp; co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent "named" designers (see "material designer license" below). tiffany &amp; co. k- 6 table of contents the company also sells timepieces, leather goods, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances and accessories, which represented, in total, 7%, 7% and 8% of worldwide net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . the remaining 1% - 2% of worldwide net sales were attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings received from a third-party licensing agreement. sales by reportable segment of tiffany &amp; co. jewelry by category 2014 % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 23 % 24 % 20 % 17 % 22 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 38 % 46 % 23 % 30 % fashion jewelry c 44 % 37 % 27 % 56 % 41 % 2013 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 23 % 27 % 20 % 19 % 23 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 36 % 47 % 25 % 30 % fashion jewelry c 44 % 36 % 26 % 53 % 40 % 2012 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 20 % 24 % 17 % 16 % 20 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 36 % 48 % 25 % 30 % fashion jewelry c 46 % 37 % 28 % 54 % 42 % a) this category includes statement, fine and solitaire jewelry (other than engagement jewelry). most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds, other gemstones or both. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 13% of sales in 2014. the average price of merchandise sold in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 in this category was approximately $5,400, $5,300 and $5,200 for total reportable segments. b) this category includes engagement rings and wedding bands marketed to brides and grooms. most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 8% of sales in 2014. the average price of merchandise sold in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 in this category was approximately $3,600, $3,600 and $3,500 for total reportable segments. c) this category generally consists of non-gemstone, sterling silver (approximately 54% of the category in 2014 ), gold or rubedo metal jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. rubedo metal is an alloy composed of copper, gold and silver which was developed by the company. the average price of merchandise sold in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 in this category was approximately $335, $300 and $295 for total reportable segments. certain reclassifications have been made to the prior years' classes of similar products to conform with management's current internal analysis of product sales. tiffany &amp; co. k- 7 table of contents advertising, marketing, public and media relations the company regularly advertises in newspapers, magazines and through digital media. public and media relations activities are also significant to the company's business. the company engages in a program of media activities and marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the brand and tiffany &amp; co. products. it also publishes its well-known blue book to showcase its high-end jewelry. in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , the company spent $283,648,000, $253,164,000 and $250,297,000, representing 6.7%, 6.3% and 6.6% of worldwide net sales in those respective years, on advertising, marketing and public and media relations, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), marketing events and other related items. in addition, management believes that the brand is enhanced by a program of charitable sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. the company also makes donations to the tiffany &amp; co. foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations. the efforts of this foundation are primarily focused on environmental conservation and urban parks. trademarks the designations tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are the principal trademarks of tiffany, and also serve as tradenames. tiffany has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., as well as the tiffany blue box and the color tiffany blue for a variety of product categories and services in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that the company's worldwide trademark rights in tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related or unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to eradicate the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. tiffany has responded to internet counterfeiting by engaging investigators and counsel to monitor the internet and taking various actions to stop infringing activity, including sending cease and desist letters, initiating civil proceedings and participating in joint actions and anti-counterfeiting programs with other like-minded third party rights holders. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. name and mark for the company's products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category of use in every country of the world; for example, third parties have registered the name tiffany in the u.s. in the food services category, and in a number of foreign countries in respect of certain product categories (including, in a few countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany's rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany's foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of legal action. tiffany &amp; co. k- 8 table of contents material designer license since 1974, tiffany has been the sole licensee for the intellectual property rights necessary to make and sell jewelry and other products designed by elsa peretti and bearing her trademarks. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 8%, 9% and 10% of the company's worldwide net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . in december 2012, tiffany entered into an amended and restated agreement (the "peretti agreement") with ms. peretti. pursuant to the peretti agreement, which largely reflects the long-standing rights and marketing and royalty obligations of the parties, ms. peretti granted tiffany an exclusive license, in all of the countries in which peretti-designed jewelry and products are currently sold, to make, have made, advertise and sell these items. ms. peretti continues to retain ownership of the copyrights for her designs and her trademarks and remains entitled to exercise approval and consultation rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of the products made in accordance with her designs. under and in accordance with the terms set forth in the peretti agreement, tiffany is required to display the licensed products in stores, to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of the licensed products, to pay royalties to ms. peretti for the licensed products sold, to maintain total on-hand and on-order inventory of non-jewelry licensed products (such as tabletop products) at approximately $8,000,000 and to take certain actions to protect the use and registration of ms. peretti's copyrights and trademarks. the peretti agreement has a term of 20 years and is binding upon ms. peretti, her heirs, estate, trustees and permitted assignees. during the term of the peretti agreement, ms. peretti may not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of her copyrights and trademarks unless the acquiring party expressly agrees with tiffany to be bound by the provisions of the peretti agreement. the peretti agreement is terminable by ms. peretti only in the event of a material breach by tiffany (subject to a cure period) or upon a change of control of tiffany or the company. it is terminable by tiffany only in the event of a material breach by ms. peretti or following an attempt by ms. peretti to revoke the exclusive license (subject, in each case, to a cure period). merchandise purchasing, manufacturing and raw materials the company primarily manufactures jewelry in new york, rhode island, and kentucky, and silver hollowware in rhode island. in 2014, the company also established jewelry manufacturing operations in thailand and jewelry polishing operations in the dominican republic. the company processes, cuts and polishes diamonds at other facilities outside the u.s. in total, these internal manufacturing facilities produce more than half of the merchandise sold by the company. the balance, including almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third-parties. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but management does not expect that the company will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to use third-party manufacturers include product quality, gross margin, access to or mastery of various jewelry-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity and the cost of capital investments. rough and polished diamonds . of the world's largest diamond producing countries, the vast majority of diamonds purchased by the company originate from australia, botswana, canada, namibia, russia and sierra leone. the company has established diamond processing operations that purchase, sort, cut and/or polish rough diamonds for its use. the company has such operations in belgium, botswana, mauritius, namibia and vietnam. the company also established such operations in cambodia in 2014. the company's operations in botswana and namibia allow it to access rough diamond allocations reserved for local manufacturers as operations in those countries are conducted through companies in which local third-parties own minority, non-controlling interests. the company maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with these local third-parties in each of those countries; however, if circumstances warrant, the company could seek to replace its existing local partners. tiffany &amp; co. k- 9 table of contents in order to acquire rough diamonds, the company must purchase mixed assortments of rough diamonds. it is thus necessary to knowingly purchase some rough diamonds that cannot be cut and polished to meet the company's quality standards and that must be sold to third-parties; such sales are reported in the other non-reportable segment. to make such sales, the company charges a market price and is, therefore, unable to earn a significant profit, if any, above its original cost. sales of rough diamonds in the other non-reportable segment have had and are expected to continue to have the effect of modestly reducing the company's overall gross margins. the company, from time to time, secures supplies of rough diamonds by agreeing to purchase a defined portion of a mine's output at the market price prevailing at the time of production. under such agreements, management anticipates that it will purchase approximately $160,000,000 of rough diamonds in 2015 . however, the company will also purchase rough diamonds from other suppliers, although it has no contractual obligations to do so. in certain instances, the company has provided loans to, or made equity investments in, mining projects in order to secure diamond supplies. in recent years, approximately 65% - 75% (by dollar value) of the polished diamonds used in jewelry have been produced from rough diamonds that the company has purchased. the balance of the company's needs for polished diamonds is purchased from polishers or polished-diamond dealers. it is the company's intention to continue to supply the majority of its needs for diamonds by purchasing and polishing rough diamonds. the company purchases polished diamonds principally from four key vendors. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with its polished-diamond vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; but such a termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. however, were trade relations between the company and one or more of these vendors to be disrupted, the company's sales could be adversely affected in the short term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for 58%, 58% and 55% of worldwide net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . products containing one or more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 14%, 15% and 13% of worldwide net sales in each of those years. conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of "conflict" or "blood" diamonds. these terms are used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. management believes that it is not possible in most purchasing scenarios to distinguish conflict diamonds from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including the company and nongovernment organizations, seek to exclude "conflict" or "blood" diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world's supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the kimberley process certification scheme. all rough diamonds the company buys, crossing an international border, must be accompanied by a kimberley process certificate and all trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. it is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. in addition, concerns over human rights abuses in zimbabwe underscore that the aforementioned system does not control diamonds produced in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. the company has informed its vendors that it does not intend to purchase zimbabwean-produced diamonds. accordingly, the company has implemented the diamond source warranty protocol, which requires vendors to provide a warranty that loose polished diamonds were not obtained from zimbabwean mines. the diamond trading company ("dtc"). the supply and prices of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the dtc, an affiliate of the de beers group. over the past decade, the dtc's historical ability to control worldwide production has been tiffany &amp; co. k- 10 table of contents significantly diminished due to its lower share of worldwide production, changing policies in diamond-producing countries and revised contractual arrangements with third-party mine operators. although the market share of the dtc has diminished, the dtc continues to supply a meaningful portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds. the dtc continues to exert influence on the demand for polished diamonds through the requirements it imposes on those ("sightholders") who purchase rough diamonds from the dtc. some, but not all, of the company's suppliers are dtc sightholders, and the company estimates that a significant portion of the diamonds that it has purchased have had their source with the dtc. the company is a dtc sightholder for rough diamonds through its operations in belgium and its african joint ventures. worldwide availability and price of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines, the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds and levels of industry liquidity. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of both rough and polished diamonds. prices for rough diamonds do not necessarily reflect current demand for polished diamonds. sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect the company and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising spending of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. the company purchases conflict-free rough and polished fine white diamonds, in the color ranges d through i. management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in this color range in the short term but believes that, unless new mines are developed, rising demand will eventually create such a shortage and lead to higher prices. manufactured diamonds. manufactured diamonds are produced in small but growing quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce manufactured diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of manufactured diamonds, manufactured diamonds are becoming a larger factor in the market. should manufactured diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. the company does not produce and does not intend to purchase or sell manufactured diamonds. purchases of other polished gemstones and precious metals . other polished gemstones and precious metals used in making jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources. most purchases are from suppliers with which tiffany enjoys long-standing relationships. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with other polished gemstone and precious metals vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. the company purchases precious metals from several suppliers for use in its internal manufacturing operations and for use by third-party manufacturers contracted to supply tiffany merchandise. while the company may supply precious metals to a manufacturer, it cannot determine, in all circumstances, whether the finished goods provided by such manufacturer were actually produced with tiffany-supplied precious metals. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of precious metals. tiffany &amp; co. k- 11 table of contents the company believes that there are numerous alternative sources for other polished gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 55 manufacturers, most of which have long-standing relationships with the company. however, the company does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. the company does enter into written blanket purchase order agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to termination. the blanket purchase order agreements establish non-price terms by which the company may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to the company. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. the company actively seeks alternative sources for its best-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, the company may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . prior to 2007, the company arranged for the production of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches with various third-party swiss component manufacturers and assemblers. in 2007, the company entered into a 20-year license and distribution agreement (the "agreement") with the swatch group for the manufacture and distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. in december 2013, an arbitral panel deemed the agreement terminated at the request of the parties. the arbitration award stated that the effective date of termination was march 1, 2013. see "item 3. legal proceedings" for additional information regarding the arbitration proceeding and the subsequent annulment action. royalties payable to the company under the agreement were not significant in any year, and watches manufactured under the agreement and sold in tiffany &amp; co. stores constituted 1% of worldwide net sales in 2013 and 2012 . the company is proceeding with plans to design, produce, market and distribute tiffany &amp; co. brand watches through certain of its swiss subsidiaries. management expects to introduce new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches in april 2015. in support of this introduction, the company has relationships with approximately 20 component and subassembly vendors to manufacture watches. the terms of the company's contractual relationships with these vendors are substantially similar to those described under "finished jewelry" above. the effective development and growth of this watch business has required and will continue to require additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties. under the agreement, the swatch group retained the right to sell watches marked with the tiffany &amp; co. trademark for a period of time subsequent to the termination of the agreement and had no obligation to reacquire any inventory sold to retailers during this period. as such, the continued presence in the retail market of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches produced under the agreement may negatively impact the company's sales and marketing efforts for its new collection of watches. competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. the company encounters significant competition in all product lines. some competitors specialize in just one area in which the company is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to the company and compete on the basis of that reputation. certain other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. the company competes on the basis of the brand's reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. the company's retail price for diamond jewelry reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the beauty of the tiffany &amp; co. k- 12 table of contents diamonds, but which also increase the company's cost. the company competes in this market by emphasizing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2015 , the company employed an aggregate of approximately 12,000 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,700 are employed in the united states. available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany &amp; co. and other companies that electronically file materials with the sec. copies of the company's reports on form 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k may be obtained, free of charge, on the company's website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm . item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the company and/or the markets in which it operates. the following "risk factors" are specific to the company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the company will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the company's sales and earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. certain competitors may react to such conditions by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the company's sales, especially given the company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. tiffany &amp; co. k- 13 table of contents the company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in greater china and anticipates significant further expansion. should the chinese economy experience a significant economic slowdown, the sales and profitability of stores in greater china as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists could be affected. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the company to forecast operating results. the company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) sales may decline or remain flat in the company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have an adverse effect on annual earnings and would result in higher inventories in the short-term. (iii) the company conducts significant operations outside the united states, and the risks of doing business internationally could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. the company generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the united states. it also has foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. in addition, the company maintains investments in, and has provided loans to, certain foreign suppliers. as a result, the company is subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; potential negative consequences from changes in taxation policies or currency restructurings; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements; economic instability in foreign countries; the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many jurisdictions; uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and inventory risk exposures. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business. tiffany &amp; co. k- 14 table of contents (iv) weakening foreign currencies may negatively affect the company's sales and profitability. the company operates retail stores in various countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the japanese yen, euro and british pound. in 2014 , sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented more than half of the company's net sales and earnings from operations. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar would require the company to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a substantial weakening of foreign currencies would result in reduced sales and profitability. in addition, a weakening in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists in the various regions where the company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its net sales and profitability. the results of operations of the company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." for a discussion of such impacts. (v) regional instability and conflict could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises such as military actions, terrorist activities, natural disasters, government regulations or other conditions may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists and local consumers in the various regions where the company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its sales and earnings. (vi) changes in the company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the company's profitability. the company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the company's geographic regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. if the company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability. (vii) changes in costs of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the company's jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. acquiring diamonds is difficult because of limited supply and the company may not be able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors, clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. a significant change in the costs or supply of these commodities could adversely affect the company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. additionally, should manufactured diamonds be offered in significant quantities and gain consumer acceptance, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. tiffany &amp; co. k- 15 table of contents if trade relationships between the company and one or more of its significant vendors were disrupted, the company's sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. (viii) volatile global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company's liquidity and capital resources. the global economy and the credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years. any prolonged economic weakness could have an adverse effect on the company's cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing and could make it more difficult for the company to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. in addition, any significant deterioration in the equity markets could negatively affect the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. (ix) the company may be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. the company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if the company cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and earnings could be jeopardized. in japan, many of the tiffany &amp; co. stores are located in department stores generating 75% of the net sales in japan and 10% of worldwide net sales in 2014 . the company also has tiffany &amp; co. stores located in department stores in other markets. should one or more department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a tiffany &amp; co. store, the company's sales and earnings would be reduced while alternative premises were being obtained. the company's commercial relationships with department stores, and their respective abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to affect the company's business in japan and the other markets. (x) the value of the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement. the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the company's business, and the company takes appropriate action to protect them. the company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related goods or services and the company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. notwithstanding the general success of the company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in most markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining the company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the tiffany &amp; co. brand could result in lost sales and earnings. (xi) the company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand's association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of the company's business. the company's expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as tiffany &amp; co. k- 16 table of contents market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this could result in lower sales and earnings. in addition, adverse publicity regarding tiffany &amp; co. products or in respect of the company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industry, and any media coverage resulting therefrom, may harm the tiffany &amp; co. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the tiffany &amp; co. brand and the industry, and negatively affect the company's results of operations. the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. (xii) if diamond mining and exploration companies, to which the company or its subsidiaries have provided financing, were to experience financial difficulties, those funds might not be recovered, which would reduce the company's earnings and could result in losing access to the mine's output. the company and its subsidiaries may, from time to time, provide financing to diamond mining and exploration companies in order to obtain rights to purchase mining output. as of january 31, 2015 , the carrying amount of receivables was $59,345,000 under these arrangements, of which more than $40,000,000 was related to one mining and exploration company. mining operations are inherently risky, and often occur in regions subject to additional political, social and environmental risks, such as the resurgence of the ebola virus in 2014 in certain regions of africa. given these risks, there is no assurance that the diamond mining and exploration companies under these arrangements will be able to meet their obligations to the company. if a diamond mining or exploration company defaults under these financings, the company would be required to take a period charge in respect of all or a portion of the financing, which would affect the company's earnings. additionally, the company could lose access to the mine's output under the related supply agreements. the company has experienced such situations in the past. (xiii) a significant data security or privacy breach of the company's information systems could affect its business. the protection of customer, employee and company data is important to the company, and the company's customers and employees expect that their personal information will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in the various jurisdictions in which the company does business. although the company has developed and implemented systems and processes that are designed to protect personal and company information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. additionally, the company's increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee information, could expose the company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. the company's efforts to protect personal and company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at its third-party vendors. the company cannot control these vendors and therefore cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage the company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand and could result in lost sales, sizable fines, significant breach-notification costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. the company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, or to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address those threats. tiffany &amp; co. k- 17 table of contents (xiv) any material disruption of, or a failure to successfully implement or make changes to, information systems could negatively impact the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on its information systems to operate its business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting its results. given the complexity of the company's global business, it is critical that the company maintain the uninterrupted operation of its information systems. despite the company's preventative efforts, its information systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruption or shutdown due to power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches or natural disasters. damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems may require a systematic investment to fix or replace them, and the company could suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. the company has commenced a multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. these system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. while the company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. any damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, such as those referenced above, could have a direct material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and could also affect the company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand, which could result in reduced sales and profitability. (xv) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations. the company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. although the company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. (xvi) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's internal manufacturing facilities could adversely affect its business and operations. the company's internal manufacturing facilities produce more than half of the merchandise sold by the company. any prolonged disruption to their operations would require the company to seek alternate sources of production and could have a negative effect on inventory availability and sales until such sources are established. (xvii) the company is engaged in efforts to design, produce, market and distribute tiffany &amp; co. brand watches; however, there is no assurance that the company will be able to effectively develop its new watch business or that such business will be successful. the company is proceeding with plans to design, produce, market and distribute tiffany &amp; co. brand watches through certain of its swiss subsidiaries. management expects to introduce new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches in april 2015. the effective development and growth of a watch business has required and tiffany &amp; co. k- 18 table of contents will continue to require additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties, including: (i) upfront and ongoing expenditures; (ii) the need to employ highly specialized and experienced personnel; (iii) new regulatory requirements; (iv) dependence on relatively small supply partners; (v) production and distribution inefficiencies; and (vi) the need to efficiently integrate operations with the company's existing business models. in addition, as with any new business, the company will be competing with businesses with stronger market positions and has invested and will continue to invest significant resources in marketing to build customer awareness and to establish product differentiation. despite the company's efforts, there is, however, no assurance that the company will be able to effectively develop its new watch business or that such business will be successful in growing the company's revenues or enhancing its profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk k- 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset a portion of the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the maximum term of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2015 is 12 months. at january 31, 2015 and 2014 , the fair value of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forwards were net assets of $20,139,000 and $6,453,000, respectively. at january 31, 2015 , a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $2,000,000. precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations through the use of forward contracts in order to manage the effect of volatility in precious metal prices. the maximum term of the company's outstanding precious metal forward contracts as of january 31, 2015 is 12 months. at january 31, 2015 and 2014 , the fair value of the company's outstanding precious metal derivative instruments were net liabilities of $2,900,000 and net assets of $1,599,000, respectively. at january 31, 2015 , a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $12,000,000. tiffany &amp; co. k- 48 table of contentsrisk factors k- 13 risk factors" for a discussion of these and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by applicable law or regulation. tiffany &amp; co. k- 2 table of contents part i item 1. business. general history of business tiffany &amp; co. (the "registrant") is a holding company that operates through its subsidiary companies (collectively, the "company"). the registrant's principal subsidiary is tiffany and company ("tiffany"). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany's business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant's common stock in 1987. the registrant, through its subsidiaries, sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. financial information about reportable segments the company's segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 is reported in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data - note p - segment information." narrative description of business all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. maintenance of the tiffany &amp; co. brand the tiffany &amp; co. brand (the "brand") is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the company. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see "trademarks" below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; sophisticated style and romance; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; "classic" product positioning; and distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany &amp; co. blue box). tiffany's business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the brand, such as the following: maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory and to accept reduced overall gross margins; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range; to provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals; elegant stores in the best "high street" and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the brand's luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands; in-store display practices enable tiffany to showcase fine jewelry in a manner consistent with the brand's positioning but require sufficient space; the classic positioning of much of tiffany's product line supports the brand, but limits the display space that can be allocated to new product introductions; tiffany's packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the brand but is expensive; and tiffany &amp; co. k- 3 table of contents a significant amount of advertising is required to both reinforce the brand's association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and earnings and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, marketing or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if any tradeoff between sales and earnings is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and may in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable product, marketing or distribution initiatives. reportable segments americas sales in the americas were 47% of worldwide net sales in 2015 , while sales in the u.s. represented 88% of net sales in the americas. retail sales. retail sales in the americas are transacted in 124 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2016 included in parentheses): the u.s. (95), canada (12), mexico (11), brazil (5) and chile (1). included within these totals are 12 company-operated stores located within various department stores in canada and mexico. internet and catalog sales . the company distributes a selection of its products in the u.s. and canada through the websites at www.tiffany.com and www.tiffany.ca . to a lesser extent, sales are also generated through catalogs that the company distributes to its proprietary list of customers in the u.s. and canada. business-to-business sales. sales executives call on business clients, primarily in the u.s., selling products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market, including trophies and items designed for the particular customer. such sales represent approximately 1% of worldwide net sales. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in markets in the central/south american and caribbean regions. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. asia-pacific sales in asia-pacific represented 24% of worldwide net sales in 2015 , while sales in greater china represented more than half of asia-pacific's net sales. retail sales. retail sales in asia-pacific are transacted in 81 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2016 included in parentheses): china (30), korea (14), hong kong (9), taiwan (8), australia (7), singapore (6), macau (4), malaysia (2) and thailand (1). included within these totals are 29 company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in australia through its website at www.tiffany.com.au . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in certain markets. such sales represent approximately 2% of worldwide net sales. tiffany &amp; co. k- 4 table of contents japan sales in japan represented 13% of worldwide net sales in 2015 . retail sales. retail sales in japan are transacted in 56 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores. included within this total are 51 stores located within department stores, generating approximately 70% of japan's net sales. there are four large department store groups in japan. the company operates tiffany &amp; co. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at january 31, 2016 included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi ltd. (13), j. front retailing co., ltd. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (9), takashimaya co., ltd. (9) and seven &amp; i holding co., ltd. (sogo and seibu department stores) (5). the company also operates 15 stores in other department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in japan through its website at www.tiffany.co.jp . business-to-business sales. products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed are sold to business customers. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in japan. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. europe sales in europe represented 12% of worldwide net sales in 2015 , while sales in the united kingdom ("u.k.") represented approximately 40% of european net sales. retail sales. retail sales in europe are transacted in 41 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2016 included in parentheses): the u.k. (10), germany (7), italy (7), france (5), spain (3), switzerland (3), austria (1), belgium (1), the czech republic (1), ireland (1), the netherlands (1) and russia (1). included within these totals are seven company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in the u.k., austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain through its websites, which are accessible through www.tiffany.com . other other consists of all non-reportable segments, including: (i) retail sales and wholesale distribution in the emerging markets region (which represented approximately 75% of other net sales in 2015); (ii) wholesale sales of diamonds; and (iii) licensing agreements. emerging markets region. retail sales are transacted in five company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in the united arab emirates ("u.a.e."). additionally, selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in certain emerging markets (primarily in the middle east). such wholesale sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. wholesale sales of diamonds. the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for polishing and further processing. some rough diamonds so purchased, and a small percentage of diamonds so polished, are found not to be suitable for the company's needs; those diamonds are sold to third parties. management's objective from such sales is to recoup its original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on those transactions. tiffany &amp; co. k- 5 table of contents licensing agreement. the company receives earnings from a licensing agreement with luxottica group for the distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand eyewear. the earnings received from this licensing agreement represented less than 1% of worldwide net sales in 2015 . in 2015, the company entered into a licensing agreement with coty inc. regarding the development, production and distribution of a new line of tiffany &amp; co. brand fragrances. the company did not receive any earnings from this agreement in 2015, and does not expect to receive any such earnings in 2016. retail distribution base management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base. this includes evaluating potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores, as well as the renovation, relocation, or, in certain instances, closure of existing stores. considerations include the characteristics of the markets to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany &amp; co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a number of opportunities remaining in new and existing markets that will meet the requirements for a tiffany &amp; co. location in the future. the following chart details the number of tiffany &amp; co. retail locations operated by the company since 2005: americas year: u.s. canada &amp; latin america asia-pacific japan europe emerging markets total 2005 59 7 25 50 13 154 2006 64 9 28 52 14 167 2007 70 10 34 53 17 184 2008 76 10 39 57 24 206 2009 79 12 45 57 27 220 2010 84 12 52 56 29 233 2011 87 15 58 55 32 247 2012 91 24 66 55 34 5 275 2013 94 27 72 54 37 5 289 2014 95 27 73 56 39 5 295 2015 95 29 81 56 41 5 307 as part of the company's real estate strategy, management plans to increase gross retail square footage by approximately 2%, net through the addition of new stores, relocations, renovations and closings in 2016. for a summary of the company's existing retail square footage, see "item 2. properties". as noted above, the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries as well as informational websites in several additional countries. sales transacted on those websites accounted for 6% of worldwide net sales in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . the company invests in ongoing website enhancements and is evaluating opportunities to expand its e-commerce sites to additional countries in the future. in addition, management believes that these websites serve a role as marketing tools to attract customers to the company's stores. products the company's principal product category is jewelry, which represented 93%, 92%, and 92% of worldwide net sales in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . the company offers an extensive selection of tiffany &amp; tiffany &amp; co. k- 6 table of contents co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent "named" designers (see "material designer license" below). the company also sells timepieces, leather goods, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances and accessories, which represented, in total, 7% of worldwide net sales in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . the remaining approximately 1% of worldwide net sales were attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings received from a third-party licensing agreement. sales by reportable segment of tiffany &amp; co. jewelry by category 2015 % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 23 % 25 % 19 % 17 % 22 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 35 % 43 % 25 % 29 % fashion jewelry c 43 % 38 % 31 % 54 % 42 % 2014 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 23 % 24 % 20 % 17 % 22 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 38 % 46 % 24 % 30 % fashion jewelry c 44 % 37 % 27 % 56 % 41 % 2013 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 23 % 27 % 20 % 19 % 23 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 36 % 47 % 25 % 30 % fashion jewelry c 44 % 36 % 26 % 53 % 40 % a) this category includes statement, fine and solitaire jewelry (other than engagement jewelry). most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds, other gemstones or both. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 15% of sales in 2015 . the average price of merchandise sold in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 in this category was approximately $5,700, $5,400 and $5,300 for total reportable segments. b) this category includes engagement rings (approximately 60% of the category) and wedding bands. most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 9% of sales in 2015 . the average price of merchandise sold in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 in this category was approximately $3,300, $3,600 and $3,600 for total reportable segments. c) this category generally consists of non-gemstone jewelry, divided approximately equally between sterling silver and gold jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. the average price of merchandise sold in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 in this category was approximately $355, $335 and $300 for total reportable segments. tiffany &amp; co. k- 7 table of contents advertising, marketing, public and media relations the company regularly advertises in newspapers, magazines and through digital media. public and media relations activities are also significant to the company's business. the company engages in a program of media activities and marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the brand and tiffany &amp; co. products. it also publishes its well-known blue book to showcase its high-end jewelry. in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , the company spent $302.0 million, $284.0 million and $253.2 million, representing 7.4%, 6.7% and 6.3% of worldwide net sales in those respective years, on advertising, marketing and public and media relations, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), marketing events and other related items. in addition, management believes that the brand is enhanced by a program of charitable sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. the company also periodically makes donations to the tiffany &amp; co. foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations. the efforts of this foundation are primarily focused on environmental conservation and urban parks. trademarks the designations tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are the principal trademarks of tiffany, and also serve as tradenames. tiffany has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., as well as the tiffany blue box , the tiffany blue box design, tiffany blue and the color tiffany blue for a variety of product categories and services in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that the company's worldwide rights in its principal trademarks, tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related or unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to eradicate the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. tiffany pursues infringers through leads generated internally and through a network of investigators, legal counsel, law enforcement and customs authorities worldwide. the company responds to such infringing activity by taking various actions, including sending cease and desist letters, cooperating with law enforcement in criminal prosecutions, initiating civil proceedings and participating in joint actions and anti-counterfeiting programs with other like-minded third party rights holders. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. name and mark for the company's products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category of use in every country of the world; for example, in some countries, third parties have registered the name tiffany in connection with certain product categories (including, in the u.s., the category of bedding and, in certain foreign countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, clothing, paper goods and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany's rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or tiffany &amp; co. k- 8 table of contents where management concluded that tiffany's foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of legal action. material designer license since 1974, tiffany has been the sole licensee for the intellectual property rights necessary to make and sell jewelry and other products designed by elsa peretti and bearing her trademarks. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 8%, 8% and 9% of the company's worldwide net sales in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . tiffany is party to an amended and restated agreement (the "peretti agreement") with ms. peretti, which largely reflects the long-standing rights and marketing and royalty obligations of the parties. pursuant to the peretti agreement, ms. peretti grants tiffany an exclusive license, in all of the countries in which peretti-designed jewelry and products are currently sold, to make, have made, advertise and sell these items. ms. peretti continues to retain ownership of the copyrights for her designs and her trademarks and remains entitled to exercise approval and consultation rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of the products made in accordance with her designs. under and in accordance with the terms set forth in the peretti agreement, tiffany is required to display the licensed products in stores, to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of the licensed products, to pay royalties to ms. peretti for the licensed products sold, to maintain total on-hand and on-order inventory of non-jewelry licensed products (such as tabletop products) at approximately $8.0 million and to take certain actions to protect ms. peretti's intellectual property, including to maintain trademark registrations reasonably necessary to sell the licensed products in the markets in which the licensed products are sold by tiffany. the peretti agreement has a term that expires in 2032 and is binding upon ms. peretti, her heirs, estate, trustees and permitted assignees. during the term of the peretti agreement, ms. peretti may not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of her copyrights and trademarks unless the acquiring party expressly agrees with tiffany to be bound by the provisions of the peretti agreement. the peretti agreement is terminable by ms. peretti only in the event of a material breach by tiffany (subject to a cure period) or upon a change of control of tiffany or the company. it is terminable by tiffany only in the event of a material breach by ms. peretti or following an attempt by ms. peretti to revoke the exclusive license (subject, in each case, to a cure period). product supply chain the company manufactures jewelry in new york, rhode island, kentucky and thailand, polishes jewelry in the dominican republic and crafts silver hollowware in rhode island. the company processes, cuts and polishes diamonds at other facilities outside the u.s. in total, these internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the merchandise sold by the company. the balance, including almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third-parties. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but management does not expect that the company will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to use third-party manufacturers include product quality, product cost, access to or mastery of various jewelry-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity and the cost of capital investments. to supply its internal manufacturing facilities, the company sources precious metals, rough diamonds (which it processes in its own facilities), polished diamonds and other gemstones. supply of diamonds . the vast majority of diamonds acquired by the company originate from botswana, canada, namibia, russia, sierra leone and south africa. the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for polishing and further processing. the company has diamond processing operations in belgium, botswana, cambodia, mauritius and vietnam that prepare, cut and/or polish rough diamonds for its use. the company's operation in botswana allows it to access rough diamond allocations reserved for tiffany &amp; co. k- 9 table of contents local manufacturers. the company conducts that operation through a subsidiary in which local third-parties own minority, non-controlling interests. the company maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with these local third-parties; however, if circumstances warrant, the company could seek to replace its existing local partners or operate without local partners. the company, from time to time, secures supplies of rough diamonds by agreeing to purchase a defined portion of a mine's output at the market price prevailing at the time of production. under such agreements, management anticipates that it will purchase approximately $100.0 million of rough diamonds in 2016 . however, the company will also purchase rough diamonds from other suppliers, although it has no contractual obligations to do so. in certain instances, the company has provided loans to, or made equity investments in, mining projects in order to secure diamond supplies. it is occasionally necessary to knowingly purchase mixed assortments of rough diamonds that contain a limited quantity of rough diamonds that cannot be cut and polished to meet the company's quality standards or assortment needs. rough diamonds so purchased, as well as a small percentage of such diamonds that have been polished, are sold to third parties when they are found not to be suitable for the company's needs. management's objective from such sales, included in the other non-reportable segment, is to recoup its original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on those transactions. as a result, these sales have had, and are expected to continue to have, the effect of modestly reducing the company's overall gross margins. in recent years, approximately 70% - 80% (by dollar value) of the polished diamonds used in jewelry have been produced from rough diamonds that the company has purchased. the balance of the company's needs for polished diamonds is purchased from polishers or polished-diamond dealers generally through purchase orders for fixed quantities. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party, but such a termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. it is the company's intention to continue to supply the majority of its needs for diamonds by purchasing and polishing rough diamonds. products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for 59%, 58% and 58% of worldwide net sales in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . products containing one or more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 14%, 14% and 15% of worldwide net sales in each of those years. conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of "conflict" or "blood" diamonds. these terms are used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. management believes that it is not possible in most purchasing scenarios to distinguish diamonds produced in conflict regions from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including the company and nongovernment organizations, seek to exclude "conflict" or "blood" diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world's supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the kimberley process certification scheme. all rough diamonds the company buys, crossing an international border, must be accompanied by a kimberley process certificate and all trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. it is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. in addition, concerns over human rights abuses in zimbabwe and angola underscore that the aforementioned system does not control diamonds produced in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. the company has informed its vendors that it does not intend to purchase zimbabwean or angolan-produced diamonds. accordingly, the company has implemented the diamond source warranty protocol, which requires vendors to provide a warranty that loose polished diamonds were not obtained from zimbabwean or angolan mines. tiffany &amp; co. k- 10 table of contents worldwide availability and price of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines, the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds and levels of industry liquidity. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of both rough and polished diamonds. prices for rough diamonds do not necessarily reflect current demand for polished diamonds. in addition, the supply and prices of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the diamond trading company ("dtc"), an affiliate of the de beers group. although the dtc's historical ability to control worldwide production has diminished due to its lower share of worldwide production and changing policies in diamond-producing countries, the dtc continues to supply a meaningful portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds and continues to impact diamond supply through its marketing and advertising initiatives. a significant portion of the diamonds that the company purchased in 2015 had their source with the dtc. sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect the company and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising spending of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. the company purchases conflict-free rough and polished colorless diamonds, in high color and clarity ranges. management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in these quality ranges in the short term but believes that, unless new mines are developed, rising demand will eventually create such a shortage and lead to higher prices. synthetic and treated diamonds. synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) are produced in growing quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce synthetic and/or treated diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of these diamonds, such diamonds are becoming a larger factor in the market. should synthetic and/or treated diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. the company does not produce and does not intend to purchase or sell such diamonds. purchases of other polished gemstones and precious metals . other polished gemstones and precious metals used in making jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources. most purchases are from suppliers with which tiffany has maintained long-standing relationships. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with other polished gemstone and precious metals vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. the company purchases precious metals from several suppliers for use in its internal manufacturing operations and for use by third-party manufacturers contracted to supply tiffany merchandise. the silver, gold and platinum sourced directly by the company principally comes from two sources: in-ground, large-scale deposits of metals, primarily in the u.s., that meet the company's standards for responsible mining and metals from recycled sources. while the company may supply precious metals to a manufacturer, it cannot determine, in all circumstances, whether the finished goods provided by such manufacturer were actually produced with tiffany-supplied precious metals. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of precious metals. tiffany &amp; co. k- 11 table of contents the company believes that there are numerous alternative sources for other polished gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 55 manufacturers, most of which have long-standing relationships with the company. however, the company does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. the company does enter into merchandise vendor agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. the merchandise vendor agreements establish non-price terms by which the company may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to the company. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities of merchandise with its vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to termination. the company actively seeks alternative sources for its best-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, the company may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . for many years prior to 2007, the company had arranged for the production of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches with various third-party swiss component manufacturers and assemblers. in 2007, the company entered into a 20-year license and distribution agreement (the "agreement") with the swatch group for the manufacture and distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. in december 2013, an arbitral panel deemed the agreement terminated at the request of the parties. the arbitration award stated that the effective date of termination was march 1, 2013. see "item 3. legal proceedings" for additional information regarding the arbitration proceeding and the subsequent annulment action. royalties payable to the company under the agreement were not significant in any year, and watches manufactured under the agreement and sold in tiffany &amp; co. stores constituted 1% of worldwide net sales in 2013. in april 2015, management introduced new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches, which have been designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the company's swiss subsidiaries. in support of this introduction, the company has relationships with approximately 30 component and subassembly vendors to manufacture watches. the terms of the company's contractual relationships with these vendors are substantially similar to those described under "finished jewelry" above. sales of these new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2015. while management anticipates an increase in these sales in 2016, it does not expect this new watch business to increase the company's profitability in 2016, as the company expects to continue to invest significant resources in marketing to continue to build customer awareness and further establish product differentiation. the effective development and growth of this watch business involves risks and uncertainties. under the agreement, the swatch group retained the right to sell watches marked with the tiffany &amp; co. trademark for a period of time subsequent to the termination of the agreement and had no obligation to reacquire any inventory sold to retailers during this period. as such, the continued presence in the retail market of those tiffany &amp; co. brand watches produced under the agreement may negatively impact the company's sales and marketing efforts for its new collection of watches. competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. the company encounters significant competition in all product categories. some competitors specialize in just one area in which the company is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to the company and compete on the basis of that reputation. certain other tiffany &amp; co. k- 12 table of contents jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. the company competes on the basis of the brand's reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. the company's retail price for diamond jewelry reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the beauty of the diamonds, but which also increase the company's cost. the company competes in this market by emphasizing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2016 , the company employed an aggregate of approximately 12,200 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,400 are employed in the united states. available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany &amp; co. and other companies that electronically file materials with the sec. copies of the company's reports on form 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k may be obtained, free of charge, on the company's website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm . item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the company and/or the markets in which it operates. the following "risk factors" are specific to the company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the company will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. tiffany &amp; co. k- 13 table of contents consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the company's sales and earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. certain competitors may react to such conditions by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the company's sales, especially given the company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in greater china and anticipates continuing to do so. any slowdown in the chinese economy could have a negative impact on the sales and profitability of stores in greater china as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the company to forecast operating results. the company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) sales may decline or remain flat in the company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have an adverse effect on annual earnings and would result in higher inventories in the short-term. (iii) the company conducts significant operations outside the united states, and the risks of doing business internationally could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. the company generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the united states. it also has foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. in addition, the company maintains investments in, and has provided loans to, certain foreign suppliers. as a result, the company is subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; potential negative consequences from changes in taxation policies or currency restructurings; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements; economic instability in foreign countries; challenges inherent in oversight of foreign operations, systems and controls; for example, in the fourth quarter of 2015, management identified inaccuracies in our japan segment relating to the timing of recognizing sales and related costs, as well as inventory, at period-ends. management determined these inaccuracies did not materially affect our annual or quarterly financial statements, including the reported financial information for our japan segment. management is continuing to review the processes and personnel involved and related remediation ; uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and tiffany &amp; co. k- 14 table of contents inventory risk exposures. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business. (iv) weakening foreign currencies would negatively affect the company's sales and profitability. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including, among others, the japanese yen, euro and british pound. in 2015 , sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented more than half of the company's net sales and earnings from operations. a continued weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar would require the company to raise its retail prices in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a continued weakening of foreign currencies would result in reduced sales and profitability. in addition, a continued weakening in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists in the various regions where the company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its net sales and profitability. the reported results of operations of the company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar continues to strengthen against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." for a discussion of such impacts. (v) regional instability and conflict could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises such as military actions, terrorist activities, natural disasters, government regulations or other conditions may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists and local consumers in the various regions where the company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its sales and earnings. for example, management believes that a significant reduction in tourist travel and spending in france and other markets within europe in the fourth quarter of 2015 were a result of the tragic terrorist attacks that occurred in paris, france during that quarter. (vi) changes in the company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the company's profitability. the company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the company's geographic regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. if the company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability. (vii) increases in costs of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the company's jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. a significant increase in the costs or change in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect the company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of precious metals and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand tiffany &amp; co. k- 15 table of contents could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. additionally, should synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and/or treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) be offered in significant quantities and gain consumer acceptance, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. (viii) volatile global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the company's liquidity and capital resources. the global economy and the credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years. any prolonged economic weakness could have an adverse effect on the company's cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing and could make it more difficult for the company to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. in addition, any significant deterioration in the equity markets could negatively affect the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. (ix) the company may be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. the company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if the company cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and earnings could be jeopardized. in japan, many of the tiffany &amp; co. stores are located in department stores generating approximately 70% of the net sales in japan, or 9% of worldwide net sales, in 2015 . the company also has tiffany &amp; co. stores located in department stores in other markets. should one or more department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a tiffany &amp; co. store, the company's sales and earnings would be reduced while alternative premises were being obtained. the company's commercial relationships with department stores, and their respective abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to affect the company's business in japan and the other markets. (x) the value of the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement. the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the company's business, and the company takes appropriate action to protect them. the company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related goods or services and the company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. notwithstanding the general success of the company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in most markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining the company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the tiffany &amp; co. brand could result in lost sales and earnings. (xi) the company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand's association with quality and luxury is integral to the success of the company's business. the company's expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise tiffany &amp; co. k- 16 table of contents development, production and management support the appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this could result in lower sales and earnings. in addition, adverse publicity regarding tiffany &amp; co. products or in respect of the company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industry, and any media coverage resulting therefrom, may harm the tiffany &amp; co. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the tiffany &amp; co. brand and the industry, and negatively affect the company's results of operations. the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. (xii) a significant data security or privacy breach of the company's information systems could affect its business. the protection of customer, employee and company data is important to the company, and the company's customers and employees expect that their personal information will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in the various jurisdictions in which the company does business. although the company has developed and implemented systems and processes that are designed to protect personal and company information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. additionally, the company's increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee information, could expose the company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. the company's efforts to protect personal and company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at its third-party vendors. the company cannot control these vendors and therefore cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage the company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand and could result in lost sales, sizable fines, significant breach-notification costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. the company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address those threats or to investigate or address potential or actual data security or privacy breaches. (xiii) any material disruption of, or a failure to successfully implement or make changes to, information systems could negatively impact the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on its information systems to operate its business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting its results. given the complexity of the company's global business, it is critical that the company maintain the uninterrupted operation of its information systems. despite the company's preventative efforts, its information systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruption or shutdown due to power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches or natural disasters. damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems may require a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company could suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. the company has commenced a multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. these system tiffany &amp; co. k- 17 table of contents changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. while the company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. any damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, such as those referenced above, could have a direct material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and could also affect the company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand, which could result in reduced sales and profitability. (xiv) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations. the company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. although the company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. (xv) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's internal manufacturing facilities could adversely affect its business and operations. the company's internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the merchandise sold by the company. any prolonged disruption to their operations would require the company to seek alternate sources of production and could have a negative effect on inventory availability and sales until such sources are established. (xvi) there is no assurance that the company will be able to effectively and successfully develop its new watch business. in april 2015, management introduced new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches, which have been designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the company's swiss subsidiaries. the effective development and growth of a watch business has required and will continue to require additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties, including: (i) significant ongoing expenditures; (ii) the need to employ highly specialized and experienced personnel; (iii) new regulatory requirements; (iv) dependence on relatively small supply partners; (v) production and distribution inefficiencies; and (vi) the need to efficiently integrate operations with the company's existing business models. sales of these new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2015. while management anticipates an increase in these sales in 2016, it does not expect this new watch business to increase the company's profitability in 2016. as with any new business, the company is competing with businesses with stronger market positions and has invested and will continue to invest significant resources in marketing to build customer awareness and to establish product differentiation. despite the company's efforts, there is, however, no assurance that the company will be able to effectively grow its new watch business or that such business will be successful in growing the company's revenues or enhancing its profitability. tiffany &amp; co. k- 18 table of contents (xvii) if diamond mining and exploration companies to which the company or its subsidiaries have provided financing were to experience financial difficulties, those funds might not be recovered, which would reduce the company's earnings and could result in losing access to the mine's output. the company and its subsidiaries may, from time to time, provide financing to diamond mining and exploration companies in order to obtain rights to purchase mining output. mining operations are inherently risky, and often occur in regions subject to additional political, social and environmental risks, such as the resurgence of the ebola virus in 2014 in certain regions of africa. given these risks, there is no assurance that the diamond mining and exploration companies subject to these arrangements will be able to meet their obligations to the company under their financing agreements or related diamond supply agreements. if a diamond mining or exploration company defaults under its financing agreement, the company would be required to evaluate whether it should take a period charge in respect of all or a portion of the financing, which would affect the company's earnings. additionally, the circumstances leading to a default under a diamond financing agreement could also result in the company losing access to the mine's output under the related supply agreements. in 2015, the company recorded $37.9 million of impairment charges, and related valuation allowances, associated with a $43.8 million financing arrangement with koidu limited (previously koidu holdings s.a.). management will continue to evaluate the collectability of the financing arrangement, and it is possible that such ongoing evaluation may result in additional changes to management's assessment of collectability. while such changes in management's assessment would not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position or cash flows, it is possible that such a change in assessment could affect the company's earnings in the period in which such a change were to occur. (xviii) the price of the company's common stock may periodically rise or fall based on the company's achievement of earnings forecasts and investors' expectations. the company's strategic planning process is designed to maximize its long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal period. management believes that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the company and its stockholders. at the same time, however, the company recognizes that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to management's annual earnings forecast. if, or when, the company announces actual results that differ from those that have been forecast by management or others, the market price of the company's common stock could be adversely affected. the company periodically returns value to its stockholders through common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. the market price of the company's common stock could be adversely affected if the company's share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend rate differs from investors' expectations. (xix) if the company is unable to effectively anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected. the company's continued success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences for jewelry and other luxury goods, attitudes towards the global jewelry industry as a whole, as well as the manner and locations in which consumers purchase such goods. the company recognizes that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, which is compounded by the expanding use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared. in addition, approximately 75% of the company's stores are located within luxury department stores and shopping malls and benefit from the ability of those locations to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in department store and/or mall traffic may negatively impact the company's ability to maintain or increase its sales in existing stores, as well as its ability to open new stores. if the company is unable to anticipate and respond in a tiffany &amp; co. k- 19 table of contents timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely impacted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk k- 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset a portion of the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the maximum term of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2016 is 12 months. at january 31, 2016 and 2015 , the fair value of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forwards were net liabilities of $0.9 million and net assets of $20.1 million, respectively. at january 31, 2016 , a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $40.0 million. precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations through the use of forward contracts in order to manage the effect of volatility in precious metal prices. the company may use a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ("precious metal collars") or forward contracts. for precious metal collars, if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar would expire at no cost to the company. in 2015, the company increased the term over which it is hedging its exposure to volatility in precious metal prices, as well as the portion of expected future metals purchases hedged, which has increased the number of precious metal derivative instruments outstanding at the end of the period. the maximum term of the company's outstanding precious metal forward contracts as of january 31, 2016 is 24 months. at january 31, 2016 and 2015 , the fair value of the company's outstanding precious metal derivative instruments were net liabilities of $12.6 million and $2.9 million, respectively. at january 31, 2016 , a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $26.0 million. tiffany &amp; co. k- 53 table of contentsrisk factors k- 11 risk factors" and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2017. readers of this annual report on form 10-k should consider the risks, uncertainties and factors outlined above and in this form 10-k in evaluating, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on, the forward-looking statements contained herein. the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by applicable law or regulation. tiffany &amp; co. k- 2 table of contents part i item 1. business. general history and narrative description of business tiffany &amp; co. (the "registrant") is a holding company that operates through its subsidiary companies (collectively, the "company"). the registrant's principal subsidiary is tiffany and company ("tiffany"). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany's business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant's common stock in 1987. the registrant, through its subsidiaries, sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. maintenance of the tiffany &amp; co. brand the tiffany &amp; co. brand (the "brand") is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the company. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see "trademarks" below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; sophisticated style and romance; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; "classic" product positioning; and distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany &amp; co. blue box). tiffany's business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the brand, such as the following: maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory, which carries a lower overall gross margin; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range; to provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals; elegant stores in the best "high street" and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the brand's luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands; while the classic positioning of much of tiffany's product line supports the brand and requires sufficient display space in its stores, management's strategy also includes an active pace of new product introductions which could result in a necessary reallocation of product display space; tiffany's packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the brand but is expensive; and a significant amount of advertising is required to both reinforce the brand's association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and earnings and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, marketing or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if any tradeoff between sales and earnings is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and may in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable product, marketing or distribution initiatives. financial information about reportable segments the company has four reportable segments: (i) americas, (ii) asia-pacific, (iii) japan and (iv) europe. all non-reportable segments are included within other. the company transacts business within certain of its segments through the following channels: (i) retail, (ii) internet, (iii) catalog, (iv) business-to-business (products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market) and (v) wholesale distribution tiffany &amp; co. k- 3 table of contents (merchandise sold to independent distributors for resale). the company's segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 is reported in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data - note p. segment information." americas sales in the americas were 46% of worldwide net sales in 2016 , while sales in the u.s. represented 88% of net sales in the americas. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet and catalog (in the u.s. and canada), business-to-business (in the u.s.) and wholesale distribution (in central/south america and the caribbean). retail sales in the americas are transacted in 125 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2017 included in parentheses): the u.s. (95), canada (13), mexico (11), brazil (5) and chile (1). included within these totals are 13 company-operated stores located within various department stores in canada and mexico. included in the u.s. retail stores is the new york flagship store, which represented less than 10% of worldwide net sales in 2016 . asia-pacific sales in asia-pacific represented 25% of worldwide net sales in 2016 , while sales in greater china represented more than half of asia-pacific's net sales. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet (in australia) and wholesale distribution. retail sales in asia-pacific are transacted in 85 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2017 included in parentheses): china (31), korea (15), australia (9), hong kong (9), taiwan (8), singapore (5), macau (4), malaysia (2), new zealand (1) and thailand (1). included within these totals are 30 company-operated stores located within various department stores. japan sales in japan represented 15% of worldwide net sales in 2016 . sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet, business-to-business and wholesale distribution. retail sales in japan are transacted in 55 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores. included within this total are 50 stores located within department stores, generating approximately 75% of japan's net sales. there are four large department store groups in japan. the company operates tiffany &amp; co. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at january 31, 2017 included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi ltd. (13), j. front retailing co., ltd. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (9), takashimaya co., ltd. (8) and seven &amp; i holding co., ltd. (sogo and seibu department stores) (5). the company also operates 15 stores in other department stores. europe sales in europe represented 11% of worldwide net sales in 2016 , while sales in the united kingdom ("u.k.") represented approximately 40% of european net sales. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet and wholesale distribution. retail sales in europe are transacted in 43 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2017 included in parentheses): the u.k. (10), italy (9), germany (6), france (5), spain (3), switzerland (3), the netherlands (2), austria (1), belgium (1), the czech republic (1), ireland (1), and russia (1). included within these totals are eight company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales are conducted within the following countries: u.k., austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain. other other consists of all non-reportable segments, including: (i) retail sales and wholesale distribution in the emerging markets region (which represented approximately 60% of other net sales in 2016); (ii) wholesale sales of diamonds tiffany &amp; co. k- 4 table of contents (see "product supply chain supply of diamonds" below); and (iii) licensing agreements. retail sales are transacted in five company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in the united arab emirates. licensing agreements. the company receives earnings from a licensing agreement with luxottica group for the distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand eyewear. the earnings received from this licensing agreement represented less than 1% of worldwide net sales in 2016 . in 2015, the company entered into a licensing agreement with coty inc. regarding the development, production and distribution of a new line of tiffany &amp; co. brand fragrances. the company did not receive any earnings from this agreement in 2015 or 2016, and does not expect any earnings in 2017 to be significant. retail distribution base management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base. this includes evaluating potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores, as well as the renovation, relocation, or, in certain instances, closure of existing stores. considerations include the characteristics of the markets to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany &amp; co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a number of opportunities remaining in new and existing markets that will meet the requirements for a tiffany &amp; co. location in the future. the following chart details the number of tiffany &amp; co. retail locations operated by the company since 2012: americas year: u.s. canada &amp; latin america asia-pacific japan europe emerging markets total 2012 91 24 66 55 34 5 275 2013 94 27 72 54 37 5 289 2014 95 27 73 56 39 5 295 2015 95 29 81 56 41 5 307 2016 95 30 85 55 43 5 313 as part of the company's strategy, management plans to increase gross retail square footage by approximately 3%, net through the addition of new stores, relocations, renovations and closings in 2017. for a summary of the company's existing retail square footage, see "item 2. properties". e-commerce the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries as well as informational websites in several additional countries. sales transacted on those websites accounted for 6% of worldwide net sales in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . the company invests in ongoing website enhancements and is evaluating opportunities to expand its e-commerce sites to additional countries. in addition, management believes that these websites serve a role as marketing tools to attract customers to the company's stores. products the company's principal product category is jewelry, which represented 92%, 93% and 92% of worldwide net sales in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . the company offers an extensive selection of tiffany &amp; co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent "named" designers (see "material designer license" below). the company also sells timepieces, leather goods, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances and accessories, which represented, in total, 7% of worldwide net sales in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . the remaining approximately 1% of worldwide net sales were attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings received from a third-party licensing agreement. tiffany &amp; co. k- 5 table of contents sales by reportable segment of tiffany &amp; co. jewelry by category 2016 % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales high, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 21 % 22 % 14 % 15 % 20 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 22 % 35 % 39 % 26 % 28 % fashion jewelry c 34 % 35 % 19 % 46 % 33 % designer jewelry d 12 % 6 % 21 % 10 % 12 % 2015 high, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 22 % 24 % 16 % 16 % 21 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 35 % 39 % 25 % 28 % fashion jewelry c 33 % 33 % 18 % 45 % 33 % designer jewelry d 12 % 7 % 20 % 10 % 11 % 2014 high, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 21 % 23 % 17 % 16 % 21 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 37 % 41 % 24 % 29 % fashion jewelry c 33 % 31 % 14 % 47 % 32 % designer jewelry d 12 % 7 % 21 % 10 % 12 % a) this category includes high, fine and solitaire jewelry (other than engagement jewelry). most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds, other gemstones or both. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 15% of sales in 2016 . the average price of merchandise sold in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 in this category was approximately $6,300, $6,300 and $5,800 for total reportable segments. b) this category includes engagement rings (approximately 60% of the category) and wedding bands. most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 10% of sales in 2016 . the average price of merchandise sold in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 in this category was approximately $3,400, $3,500 and $3,800 for total reportable segments. c) this category generally consists of non-gemstone jewelry, primarily containing sterling silver and gold jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. the average price of merchandise sold in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 in this category was approximately $350, $335 and $310 for total reportable segments. d) this category includes only items that are attributed to one of the company's "named" designers: elsa peretti (refer to "material designer license" below) and paloma picasso. merchandise primarily consists of sterling silver and gold jewelry, although platinum was used as the primary metal in approximately 15% of sales in 2016 . some of the items sold contain diamonds, other gemstones or a combination of both. the average price of merchandise sold in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 in this category was approximately $530, $525 and $535 for total reportable segments. items bearing the name of and attributed to one of the company's "named" designers: elsa peretti and paloma picasso, which were previously reported across the high, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry, engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands and fashion jewelry categories, have been reclassified into the designer jewelry category to conform with management's current internal analysis of product sales. additionally, certain reclassifications within the jewelry categories have been made to the prior years' amounts to conform to the current year category presentation. tiffany &amp; co. k- 6 table of contents advertising, marketing, public and media relations the company regularly advertises in newspapers, magazines and through digital media. public and media relations activities are also significant to the company's business. the company engages in a program of media activities and marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the brand and tiffany &amp; co. products. it also publishes its well-known blue book to showcase its high-end jewelry. in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , the company spent $299.0 million, $302.0 million and $284.0 million, representing 7.5%, 7.4% and 6.7% of worldwide net sales in those respective years, on advertising, marketing and public and media relations, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), marketing events and other related items. in addition, management believes that the brand is enhanced by a program of charitable sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. the company also periodically makes donations to the tiffany &amp; co. foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations. the efforts of this foundation are primarily focused on environmental conservation. trademarks the designations tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are the principal trademarks of tiffany, and also serve as tradenames. tiffany has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., as well as the tiffany blue box , the tiffany blue box design, tiffany blue and the color tiffany blue for a variety of product categories and services in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that the company's worldwide rights in its principal trademarks, tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related or unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to eradicate the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. tiffany pursues infringers through leads generated internally and through a network of investigators, legal counsel, law enforcement and customs authorities worldwide. the company responds to such infringing activity by taking various actions, including sending cease and desist letters, cooperating with law enforcement in criminal prosecutions, initiating civil proceedings and participating in joint actions and anti-counterfeiting programs with other like-minded third party rights holders. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. name and mark for the company's products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category of use in every country of the world; for example, in some countries, third parties have registered the name tiffany in connection with certain product categories (including, in the u.s., the category of bedding and, in certain foreign countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, clothing, paper goods and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany's rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany's foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of legal action. tiffany &amp; co. k- 7 table of contents material designer license since 1974, tiffany has been the sole licensee for the intellectual property rights necessary to make and sell jewelry and other products designed by elsa peretti and bearing her trademarks. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 9%, 8% and 8% of the company's worldwide net sales in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . tiffany is party to an amended and restated agreement (the "peretti agreement") with ms. peretti, which largely reflects the long-standing rights and marketing and royalty obligations of the parties. pursuant to the peretti agreement, ms. peretti grants tiffany an exclusive license, in all of the countries in which peretti-designed jewelry and products are currently sold, to make, have made, advertise and sell these items. ms. peretti continues to retain ownership of the copyrights for her designs and her trademarks and remains entitled to exercise approval and consultation rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of the products made in accordance with her designs. under and in accordance with the terms set forth in the peretti agreement, tiffany is required to display the licensed products in stores, to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of the licensed products, to pay royalties to ms. peretti for the licensed products sold, to maintain total on-hand and on-order inventory of non-jewelry licensed products (such as tabletop products) at approximately $8.0 million and to take certain actions to protect ms. peretti's intellectual property, including to maintain trademark registrations reasonably necessary to sell the licensed products in the markets in which the licensed products are sold by tiffany. the peretti agreement has a term that expires in 2032 and is binding upon ms. peretti, her heirs, estate, trustees and permitted assignees. during the term of the peretti agreement, ms. peretti may not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of her copyrights and trademarks unless the acquiring party expressly agrees with tiffany to be bound by the provisions of the peretti agreement. the peretti agreement is terminable by ms. peretti only in the event of a material breach by tiffany (subject to a cure period) or upon a change of control of tiffany or the company. it is terminable by tiffany only in the event of a material breach by ms. peretti or following an attempt by ms. peretti to revoke the exclusive license (subject, in each case, to a cure period). product supply chain the company manufactures jewelry in new york, rhode island and kentucky, polishes jewelry in the dominican republic and crafts silver hollowware in rhode island. the company processes, cuts and polishes rough diamonds at facilities outside the u.s. in total, these internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the jewelry sold by the company. the balance, including almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third-parties. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but management does not expect that the company will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to use third-party manufacturers include access to or mastery of various product-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity, product cost and the cost of capital investments. to supply its internal manufacturing facilities, the company sources precious metals, rough diamonds, polished diamonds and other gemstones, as well as certain fabricated components, from third parties. supply of diamonds . the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for polishing and further processing. the vast majority of diamonds acquired by the company originate from botswana, canada, namibia, russia, sierra leone and south africa. the company has diamond processing operations in belgium, botswana, cambodia, mauritius and vietnam that prepare and/or cut and polish rough diamonds for its use. the company conducts operations in botswana through a subsidiary in which local third-parties own minority, non-controlling interests, allowing the company to access rough diamond allocations reserved for local manufacturers. the company maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with these local third-parties; however, if circumstances warrant, the company could seek to replace its existing local partners or operate without local partners. the company secures supplies of rough diamonds primarily through arrangements with diamond producers and, to a lesser extent, on the secondary market. these arrangements include purchase agreements under which the company agrees to purchase a minimum volume of rough diamonds, as well as arrangements in which the company maintains access to rough diamonds that are offered for sale (including as a sightholder), although with no contractual obligation to purchase such rough diamonds. additionally, the company has a limited number of arrangements under which the company, having provided loans to, or made equity investments in, mining projects, has agreed to, or has the right to, purchase a defined portion of a mine's output. all such supply arrangements are generally at the market tiffany &amp; co. k- 8 table of contents price prevailing at the time of purchase. management anticipates that its minimum purchase obligations of rough diamonds under all of these arrangements will be approximately $60.0 million in 2017 . as a result of the manner in which rough diamonds are typically assorted for sale, it is occasionally necessary for the company to knowingly purchase, as part of a larger assortment, rough diamonds that do not meet the company's quality standards or assortment needs. the company seeks to recover its costs related to these diamonds by selling such diamonds to third parties (generally other diamond polishers), which has the effect of modestly reducing the company's overall gross margins. any such sales are included in the other non-reportable segment. in recent years, approximately 65% - 75% (by dollar value) of the polished diamonds used in the company's jewelry have been produced from rough diamonds that the company has purchased. the balance of the company's needs for polished diamonds is purchased from polishers or polished-diamond dealers generally through purchase orders for fixed quantities. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party, but such a termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. it is the company's intention to continue to supply the majority of its needs for diamonds by purchasing and polishing rough diamonds. products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for 59%, 59% and 58% of worldwide net sales in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . products containing one or more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 13%, 14% and 14% of worldwide net sales in each of those years. conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of "conflict" diamonds. this term is used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. management believes that it is not possible in most purchasing scenarios to distinguish diamonds produced in conflict regions from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including the company and nongovernment organizations, seek to exclude "conflict" diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world's supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the kimberley process certification scheme. all rough diamonds the company buys, crossing an international border, must be accompanied by a kimberley process certificate and all trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. it is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. in addition, concerns over human rights abuses in zimbabwe, angola and the democratic republic of the congo underscore that the aforementioned system has not deterred the production of diamonds in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. the company has informed its vendors that it does not intend to purchase zimbabwean, angolan or congolese-produced diamonds. accordingly, the company has implemented the diamond source warranty protocol, which requires vendors to provide a warranty, and a qualified independent audit certificate, that loose polished diamonds were not obtained from zimbabwean, angolan or congolese mines. worldwide availability and price of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines, the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds and levels of industry liquidity. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of both rough and polished diamonds. prices for rough diamonds do not necessarily reflect current demand for polished diamonds. in addition, the supply and prices of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the diamond trading company ("dtc"), an affiliate of the de beers group. although the dtc's historical ability to control worldwide production has diminished due to its lower share of worldwide production and changing policies in diamond-producing countries, the dtc continues to supply a meaningful portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds and continues to impact diamond supply through its marketing and advertising initiatives. a significant portion of the diamonds that the company purchased in 2016 had their source with the dtc. sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect the company and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising spending of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. tiffany &amp; co. k- 9 table of contents the company purchases conflict-free rough and polished colorless diamonds, in high color and clarity ranges. management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in these quality ranges in the short term but believes that, unless new mines are developed, rising demand will eventually create such a shortage and lead to higher prices. synthetic and treated diamonds. synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) are produced in growing quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce synthetic and/or treated diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of these diamonds, such diamonds are becoming a larger factor in the market. should synthetic and/or treated diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. the company does not produce and does not intend to purchase or sell such diamonds. purchases of precious metals and other polished gemstones . precious metals and other polished gemstones used in making jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources for use in the company's internal manufacturing operations and/or for use by third-party manufacturers contracted to supply tiffany merchandise. the silver, gold and platinum sourced directly by the company principally comes from two sources: in-ground, large-scale deposits of metals, primarily in the u.s., that meet the company's standards for responsible mining and metals from recycled sources. while the company may supply precious metals to a manufacturer, it cannot determine, in all circumstances, whether the finished goods provided by such manufacturer were actually produced with company-supplied precious metals. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with precious metals and other polished gemstone vendors. purchases are generally made at prevailing market prices, which have, with respect to precious metals, experienced substantial volatility in recent years. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. the company believes that there are numerous alternative sources for other polished gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 45 manufacturers. however, the company does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. the company does enter into merchandise vendor agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. the merchandise vendor agreements establish non-price terms by which the company may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to the company. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities of merchandise with its vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to termination. the company actively seeks alternative sources for its best-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, the company may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . in 2015, management introduced new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches, which have been designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the company's swiss subsidiaries. in support of this introduction, the company has relationships with approximately 30 component and subassembly vendors to manufacture watches. the terms of the company's contractual relationships with these vendors are substantially similar to those described under "finished jewelry" above. sales of these new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in both 2016 and 2015. while management anticipates an increase in these sales in 2017, it does not expect this new watch business to increase the company's profitability in 2017, as the company expects to continue to invest significant resources in marketing to continue to build customer awareness and further establish product differentiation. competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. the company encounters significant competition in all product categories. some competitors specialize in just one area in which the company is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to tiffany &amp; co. k- 10 table of contents the company and compete on the basis of that reputation. certain other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. the company competes on the basis of the brand's reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. the company's retail price for diamond jewelry reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the beauty of the diamonds, but which also increase the company's cost. the company competes in this market by emphasizing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2017 , the company employed an aggregate of approximately 11,900 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,200 are employed in the united states. available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany &amp; co. and other companies that electronically file materials with the sec. copies of the company's reports on form 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k may be obtained, free of charge, on the company's website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm . item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the company and/or the markets in which it operates. the following "risk factors" are specific to the company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the company will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; political uncertainties and/or developments; changes in the market value of equity securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the company's sales and earnings. tiffany &amp; co. k- 11 table of contents certain competitors may react to such conditions by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the company's sales, especially given the company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in greater china and anticipates continuing to do so. any slowdown in the chinese economy could have a negative impact on the sales and profitability of stores in greater china as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the company to forecast operating results. the company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) sales may decline or remain flat in the company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have an adverse effect on annual earnings and inventories in the short-term. (iii) the company conducts operations globally, the risks of which could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. the company operates globally and generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the united states. it also has both u.s. and foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain u.s. and foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. in addition, the company maintains investments in, and has provided loans to, certain foreign suppliers. as a result, the company is subject to the risks of doing business globally, including: the laws, regulations and policies of governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; uncertainties from changes in u.s. or foreign taxation policies, including, for example, as a result of recent proposals to reform the manner in which the earnings of u.s. multinational corporations are taxed by the u.s. government; compliance by third party vendors and suppliers with the company's sourcing and quality standards, codes of conduct, or contractual requirements as well as applicable laws and regulations; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements; political or economic instability in foreign countries, including the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies (including diplomatic and trade relations with other countries), political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation as a result of, for example, (1) the united kingdom's referendum vote to exit the european union, as discussed below, or (2) changes in government policies resulting from the recent change in the u.s. presidential administration; challenges inherent in oversight of foreign operations, systems and controls; for example, in the fourth quarter of 2015, management identified inaccuracies in the japan segment relating to the timing of recognizing sales and related costs, as well as inventory, at period-ends. management determined these inaccuracies did not materially affect the company's annual or quarterly financial statements, including the reported financial information for the japan segment. however, management has reviewed the processes and personnel involved and completed appropriate remediation activities; potential negative consequences from foreign governments' currency management practices; uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; and inventory risk exposures. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." if passed into law, negotiations will commence to determine the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union, including terms of trade. such negotiations will likely be complex and tiffany &amp; co. k- 12 table of contents protracted, and there can be no assurance regarding the terms or timing of any such arrangements. a withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. there may be similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which the company does business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences, as well as the impact of any similar circumstances that may arise elsewhere in europe, could increase the company's costs and adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer discretionary purchases, including purchases of the company's products. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business. (iv) a strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would negatively affect the company's sales and profitability. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including, among others, the japanese yen, euro, british pound, chinese yuan and the hong kong dollar. in 2016 , sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented more than half of the company's net sales and earnings from operations. a continued strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would require the company to raise its retail prices in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a continued strengthening of the u.s. dollar would result in reduced sales and profitability. in addition, a continued weakening of any foreign currency relative to other currencies may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists in the various regions where the company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its net sales and profitability. the reported results of operations of the company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar continues to strengthen against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." for a discussion of such impacts. (v) political activities, regional instability and/or conflict or similar events could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. regional and global conflicts or crises, such as military actions, terrorist activities (like those that occurred in several major european cities in 2016 and 2015) and natural disasters, geopolitical or regulatory developments (and any related protests) and other similar events and conditions in the various regions and cities where the company operates retail stores may negatively affect spending by both foreign tourists and local consumers. the company's retail stores, many of which are located in major metropolitan areas globally, may in fact have close proximity to the locations of such events for example, the company's new york flagship store is located adjacent to a private residence of the u.s. president which has, at times, impacted consumer access as a result of security measures. the occurrence of the types of events or conditions described above, or the related effect of security measures implemented to address the possibility of such occurrences, could affect consumer traffic and/or spending in one or more of the company's locations, which could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. while sales in the company's largest store (the new york flagship) represent less than 10% of worldwide net sales, the impact of significant sales declines in any one store could still be meaningful to consolidated results. tiffany &amp; co. k- 13 table of contents (vi) changes in the company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the company's profitability. the company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the company's geographic regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. the increasing availability of, and ease of access to, retail price information across markets, primarily through the internet, may affect consumers' decisions regarding in which geographies to shop. if the company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability. (vii) increases in costs of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the company's jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. a significant increase in the costs or change in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect the company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of precious metals and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. additionally, should synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and/or treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) be offered in significant quantities and gain consumer acceptance, the supply of, demand for and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. (viii) the company may be unable to secure and retain sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations, and maintaining the company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires significant investment in store construction, maintenance and periodic renovation. the company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base, including potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores, as well as the renovation and relocation of its existing stores. maintaining the company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires that stores be constructed and maintained in a manner consistent with that brand image. this requires significant capital investment, including for periodic renovations of existing stores. renovations of existing stores may also result in temporary disruptions to an individual store's business. for example, the company has begun the conceptual phase of a multi-year effort to renovate its new york flagship store, which may result in business and/or consumer traffic disruptions to that store once such renovations begin. if the company cannot secure and retain store locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, or if its investments to construct and/or renovate existing stores do not generate sufficient incremental sales and/or profitability, the company's sales and/or earnings performance could be jeopardized. (ix) the value of the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement. the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the company's business, and the company takes appropriate action to protect them. the company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related goods or services and the company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. notwithstanding the general success of the company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in most markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise or merchandise that infringes the company's trademarks could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining the company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the tiffany &amp; co. brand could result in lost sales and earnings. tiffany &amp; co. k- 14 table of contents (x) the company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand's association with quality and luxury is integral to the success of the company's business. the company's expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and development, production and management support the appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this could result in lower sales and earnings. in addition, adverse publicity regarding tiffany &amp; co. and its products, as well as adverse publicity in respect of, or resulting from, the company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industries more generally, could adversely affect the company's business. for example, the company sources from third-party vendors certain products that, from time to time, may not, or may contain raw materials that do not, meet the company's sourcing and quality standards as well as applicable requirements and regulations. in such instances, although the company may have recourse against such third-party vendors, the company may self-report to the relevant regulatory agencies, recall affected products and/or pay potential fines. by way of further example, during the company's regular internal quality testing, the company identified a potential breach of the company's sourcing and quality standards applicable to third party vendors. the company is currently in the early stages of assessing the composition of certain of its gold products manufactured by certain u.s. third-party vendors, which contain gold solder manufactured by other u.s. vendors, to determine whether such products are in compliance with applicable consumer products requirements and regulations. any of the above could harm the tiffany &amp; co. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the tiffany &amp; co. brand, its products and the industry, and/or negatively affect the company's results of operations. the considerable expansion in the use of social media in recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. (xi) a significant data security or privacy breach of the company's information systems could affect its business. the protection of customer, employee and company data is important to the company, and its customers and employees expect that their personal information will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in the various jurisdictions in which the company does business. although the company has developed and implemented systems and processes that are designed to protect personal and company information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. additionally, the company's increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee information, could expose the company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. the company's efforts to protect personal and company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at its third-party vendors. while the company's contractual arrangements with such third-party vendors provide for the protection of company data, the company cannot control these vendors or their systems and cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage the company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand and could result in lost sales, sizable fines, significant breach-notification costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. the company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address those threats or to investigate or address potential or actual data security or privacy breaches. (xii) any material disruption of, or a failure to successfully implement or make changes to, information systems could negatively impact the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on its information systems to operate its business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting its results. given the complexity of the company's global business, it is critical that the company maintain the uninterrupted operation of its information systems. despite the company's preventative efforts, its information systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruption or shutdown due to power outages, tiffany &amp; co. k- 15 table of contents computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches or natural disasters. damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems may require a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company could suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. the company has commenced a multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. these system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. while the company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. for example, in 2016 the company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $25.4 million related to software costs capitalized in connection with the development of a new finished goods inventory management and merchandising information system. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations information systems assessment" for a discussion of this impairment charge. any damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, such as those referenced above, could have a direct material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, could undermine the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational initiatives, and could also affect the company's reputation, its ability to compete effectively, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand, which could result in reduced sales and profitability. (xiii) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations. the company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. although the company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. (xiv) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's internal manufacturing facilities could adversely affect its business and operations. the company's internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the merchandise sold by the company. any prolonged disruption to their operations would require the company to seek alternate sources of production and could have a negative effect on inventory availability and sales until such sources are established. (xv) if diamond mining and exploration companies to which the company or its subsidiaries have provided financing were to experience financial difficulties, those funds might not be recovered, which would reduce the company's earnings. the company and its subsidiaries may, from time to time, provide financing to diamond mining and exploration companies in order to obtain rights to purchase mining output. mining operations are inherently risky, and often occur in regions subject to additional political, social and environmental risks. given these risks, there is no assurance that the diamond mining and exploration companies subject to these arrangements will be able to meet their obligations to the company under their financing agreements. if a diamond mining or exploration company defaults under its financing agreement, the company would be required to evaluate whether it should take a period charge in respect of all or a portion of the financing, which would affect the company's earnings. for example, in 2016 and 2015, the company recorded impairment charges, and related valuation allowances, of $4.2 million and $37.9 million, respectively, associated with a $43.8 million financing arrangement with koidu limited (previously koidu holdings s.a.). see "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note j. commitments and contingencies" for additional information. tiffany &amp; co. k- 16 table of contents (xvi) there is no assurance that the company will be able to effectively and successfully grow its new watch business. in 2015, management introduced new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches, which have been designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the company's swiss subsidiaries. the effective development of this watch business has required and will continue to require additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties, including: (i) significant ongoing expenditures; (ii) the need to employ highly specialized and experienced personnel; (iii) new regulatory requirements; (iv) dependence on relatively small supply partners; and (v) production and distribution inefficiencies. sales of these new tiffany &amp; co. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2016 and 2015. while management anticipates an increase in these sales in 2017, it does not expect this new watch business to significantly contribute to the company's profitability in the near term. as with any new business, the company is competing with businesses with stronger market positions and has invested and will continue to invest significant resources in marketing to build customer awareness and to establish product differentiation. there is, however, no assurance that the company will be able to effectively grow its new watch business or that such business will be successful in growing the company's revenues or enhancing its profitability. (xvii) if the company is unable to effectively anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, or introduce new products or marketing programs that appeal to new or existing customers, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected. the company's continued success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences for jewelry and other luxury goods, attitudes towards the global jewelry industry as a whole, as well as the manner and locations in which consumers purchase such goods. the company recognizes that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, which is compounded by the expanding use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared. the company's product development strategy is to introduce new design collections, primarily jewelry, and/or expand certain existing collections annually. in addition, management intends to continue to invest in marketing and public relations programs designed to build awareness of the brand, its heritage and its products, as well as to enhance the brand's association among consumers with quality and luxury. there can be no assurance these strategies will appeal to new or existing customers or will result in increased sales or profitability. further, if the company is unable to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely impacted. in addition, approximately 75% of the company's stores are located within luxury department stores and shopping malls and benefit from the ability of those locations to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in department store and/or mall traffic may negatively impact the company's ability to maintain or increase its sales in existing stores, as well as its ability to open new stores. (xviii) the price of the company's common stock may periodically rise or fall based on the company's achievement of earnings forecasts and investors' expectations. the company's strategic planning process is designed to maximize its long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal period. management believes that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the company and its stockholders. at the same time, however, the company recognizes that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to management's annual earnings forecast. if, or when, the company announces actual results that differ from those that have been forecast by management or others, the market price of the company's common stock could be adversely affected. the company periodically returns value to its stockholders through common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. the market price of the company's common stock could be adversely affected if the company's share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend rate differs from investors' expectations. (xix) recent changes in the company's executive management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, its business, results of operations and the price of the company's common stock. on february 5, 2017, frederic cumenal stepped down from his position as chief executive officer of the company, and the company's board of directors appointed michael j. kowalski, chairman of the board, as the company's interim chief executive officer. the company's board of directors has commenced an external search to recruit a successor with the assistance of a leading executive search firm. in addition to this recent change, certain members tiffany &amp; co. k- 17 table of contents of the company's executive management team have left the company in recent years, which has required the company to focus time and resources on recruiting the new members of its current executive management team. these changes in the company's executive management team, may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, the company's business, and any additional changes to the executive management team could have a negative impact on the company's ability to manage and grow its business effectively. in addition, if the company is not effective in succession planning, there may be a negative impact on the company's ability to successfully hire for key executive management roles, including the chief executive officer position, in a timely manner. any such disruption or uncertainty or difficulty in efficiently and effectively filling key roles could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and the price of the company's common stock. (xx) environmental and climate changes could affect the company's business. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries and has both domestic and foreign manufacturing operations that are susceptible to the risks associated with climate change, including the potential for more frequent and severe weather events. such events could result in social, cultural and economic disruptions in these areas, including the disruption of local infrastructure and transportation systems that could limit the ability of the company's employees and/or its customers to access the company's stores or manufacturing locations. despite the fact that the company is pursuing numerous initiatives to reduce its environmental footprint, including its recent pledge to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by the year 2050, there remains the risk that insufficient global cooperation could lead to heightened levels of climate change. while the company has a program for reviewing its vulnerability to the impacts of severe weather events and other risks associated with climate change, these events could nonetheless negatively affect the company's business and operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk k- 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset a portion of the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the maximum term of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2017 is 12 months. at january 31, 2017 and 2016 , the fair values of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forwards were net assets of $7.1 million and net liabilities of $0.9 million , respectively. in 2016, the company entered into cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign exchange risk associated with japanese yen-denominated intercompany loans. as of january 31, 2017 , the notional amount of these cross-currency swaps was approximately 10.6 billion or $100.0 million. the cross-currency swaps have a term ending on october 1, 2024. at january 31, 2017 , the fair value of the company's outstanding cross-currency swaps were liabilities of $0.4 million . at january 31, 2017 , for the total contracts and swaps noted above, a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $44.0 million. precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations in order to manage the effect of volatility in precious metal prices. the company may use a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ("precious metal collars") or forward contracts. for precious metal collars, if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar would expire at no cost to the company. the maximum term of the company's outstanding precious metal forward contracts as of january 31, 2017 is 24 months. at january 31, 2017 and 2016 , the fair values of the company's outstanding precious metal derivative instruments were net liabilities of $1.7 million and $12.6 million, respectively. at january 31, 2017 , a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $16.0 million. tiffany &amp; co. k- 48 table of contentsrisk factors k- 11 risk factors" and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2018. readers of this annual report on form 10-k should consider the risks, uncertainties and factors outlined above and in this form 10-k in evaluating, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on, the forward-looking statements contained herein. the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by applicable law or regulation. tiffany &amp; co. k- 2 table of contents part i item 1. business. general history and narrative description of business tiffany &amp; co. (the "registrant") is a holding company that operates through tiffany and company ("tiffany") and the registrant's other subsidiary companies (collectively, the "company"). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany's business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant's common stock in 1987. the registrant, through its subsidiaries, sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. maintenance of the tiffany &amp; co. brand the tiffany &amp; co. brand (the "brand") is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the company. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see "trademarks" below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; sophisticated style and romance; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; "classic" product positioning; and distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany &amp; co. blue box). tiffany's business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the brand, such as the following: maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory, which carries a lower overall gross margin; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range; to provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals; elegant stores in the best "high street" and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the brand's luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands; while the classic positioning of much of tiffany's product line supports the brand and requires sufficient display space in its stores, management's strategic priorities also include the accelerated introduction of new design collections primarily in jewelry, but also in non-jewelry products, which could result in a necessary reallocation of product display space; tiffany's packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the brand but is expensive; and a significant amount of advertising is required to both reinforce the brand's association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and earnings and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, marketing or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if any tradeoff between sales and earnings is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and may in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable product, marketing or distribution initiatives. financial information about reportable segments the company has four reportable segments: (i) americas, (ii) asia-pacific, (iii) japan and (iv) europe. all non-reportable segments are included within other. the company transacts business within certain of its segments through the following channels: (i) retail, (ii) internet, (iii) catalog, (iv) business-to-business (products drawn from tiffany &amp; co. k- 3 table of contents the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market) and (v) wholesale distribution (merchandise sold to independent distributors for resale). the company's segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 is reported in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data - note p. segment information." americas sales in the americas represented 45% of worldwide net sales in 2017 , while sales in the united states ("u.s.") represented approximately 90% of net sales in the americas. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail (in the u.s., canada and latin america), internet and catalog (in the u.s. and canada), business-to-business (in the u.s.) and wholesale distribution (in latin america and the caribbean). retail sales in the americas are transacted in 124 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2018 included in parentheses): the u.s. (94), canada (13), mexico (11), brazil (5) and chile (1). included within these totals are 10 company-operated stores located within various department stores in canada and mexico. included in the u.s. retail stores is the new york flagship store, which represented less than 10% of worldwide net sales in 2017 . asia-pacific sales in asia-pacific represented 26% of worldwide net sales in 2017 , while sales in greater china represented approximately 60% of asia-pacific's net sales. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet (in australia) and wholesale distribution. retail sales in asia-pacific are transacted in 87 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2018 included in parentheses): china (31), korea (15), australia (11), hong kong (10), taiwan (7), singapore (5), macau (4), malaysia (2), new zealand (1) and thailand (1). included within these totals are 34 company-operated stores located within various department stores. japan sales in japan represented 14% of worldwide net sales in 2017 . sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet, business-to-business and wholesale distribution. retail sales in japan are transacted in 54 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores. included within this total are 49 stores located within department stores, generating approximately 75% of japan's net sales. there are four large department store groups in japan. the company operates tiffany &amp; co. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at january 31, 2018 included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi ltd. (13), j. front retailing co., ltd. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (8), takashimaya co., ltd. (8) and seven &amp; i holding co., ltd. (sogo and seibu department stores) (5). the company also operates 15 stores in other department stores. europe sales in europe represented 12% of worldwide net sales in 2017 , while sales in the united kingdom ("u.k.") represented approximately 40% of european net sales. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet and wholesale distribution. retail sales in europe are transacted in 46 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2018 included in parentheses): the u.k. (11), italy (10), germany (6), france (5), spain (3), switzerland (3), the netherlands (2), russia (2), austria (1), belgium (1), the czech republic (1) and ireland (1). included within these totals are nine company-operated stores located within various department stores. the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites within the following countries: u.k., austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain. tiffany &amp; co. k- 4 table of contents other other consists of all non-reportable segments, including: (i) retail sales transacted in four company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in the united arab emirates ("u.a.e.") and wholesale distribution in the emerging markets region (which represented approximately 50% of other net sales in 2017); (ii) wholesale sales of diamonds (see "product supply chain supply of diamonds" below); and (iii) licensing agreements. licensing agreements. the company receives earnings from a licensing agreement with luxottica group, for the development, production and distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand eyewear, and from a licensing agreement with coty inc., for the development, production and distribution of a new line of tiffany &amp; co. brand fragrances. the earnings received from these licensing agreements represented less than 1% of worldwide net sales in 2017 . retail distribution base management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base. this includes evaluating potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores, as well as the renovation, relocation, or closing of existing stores. considerations include the characteristics of the markets to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany &amp; co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a number of opportunities remaining in new and existing markets that will meet the requirements for a tiffany &amp; co. location in the future. the following chart details the number of tiffany &amp; co. retail locations operated by the company since 2013: americas year: u.s. canada &amp; latin america asia-pacific japan europe emerging markets total 2013 94 27 72 54 37 5 289 2014 95 27 73 56 39 5 295 2015 95 29 81 56 41 5 307 2016 95 30 85 55 43 5 313 2017 94 30 87 54 46 4 315 as part of the company's long-term objectives, management plans to increase gross retail square footage by approximately 2%, net through the addition of new stores, relocations, renovations and closings in 2018. for a summary of the company's existing retail square footage, see "item 2. properties". e-commerce, catalog and phone orders the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries as well as informational websites in several additional countries. to a lesser extent, sales are also generated through catalogs that the company distributes in certain countries as well as orders placed via telephone in certain markets. sales transacted on those websites, through catalogs or via telephone accounted for 7% of worldwide net sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . the company invests in ongoing website enhancements and is evaluating opportunities to expand its e-commerce sites to additional countries. in addition, management believes that these websites serve an important marketing role in attracting customers to the company's stores. products the company's principal product category is jewelry, which represented 91%, 92% and 93% of worldwide net sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . the company offers an extensive selection of tiffany &amp; co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent "named" designers (see "material designer license" below). the company also sells timepieces, leather goods, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, eyewear, fragrances and other accessories, which represented, in total, 7% of worldwide net sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . the remainder of worldwide net sales were attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings received from third-party licensing agreements. tiffany &amp; co. k- 5 table of contents sales by reportable segment of tiffany &amp; co. jewelry by category 2017 % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales jewelry collections a 54 % 61 % 31 % 61 % 53 % engagement jewelry b 21 % 30 % 38 % 24 % 26 % designer jewelry c 14 % 8 % 22 % 12 % 14 % 2016 jewelry collections a 54 % 56 % 31 % 59 % 52 % engagement jewelry b 22 % 35 % 39 % 26 % 28 % designer jewelry c 14 % 7 % 23 % 11 % 13 % 2015 jewelry collections a 53 % 56 % 33 % 60 % 52 % engagement jewelry b 23 % 35 % 39 % 25 % 28 % designer jewelry c 14 % 8 % 21 % 11 % 13 % a) this category includes jewelry in a wide range of prices within the company's high jewelry and named jewelry collections such as tiffany victoria , tiffany soleste , tiffany keys, tiffany t, tiffany hardwear and return to tiffany , among others. jewelry in this category is primarily crafted using precious metals (platinum, gold or sterling silver) and may contain diamonds and/or other gemstones. b) this category includes engagement rings (approximately 60% of the category) and wedding bands. most jewelry in this category contains diamonds and is constructed of platinum and/or gold. c) this category includes only jewelry that is attributed to one of the company's "named" designers: elsa peretti (refer to "material designer license" below), paloma picasso and jean schlumberger. jewelry in this category is primarily crafted using precious metals (platinum, gold or sterling silver) and may contain diamonds and/or other gemstones. the jewelry collections category reflects the combination of the previously reported high, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry and fashion jewelry categories. additionally, jewelry bearing the name of and attributed to jean schlumberger, which was previously reported within the high, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry category, has been reclassified into the designer jewelry category. such changes or reclassifications have been made to conform with management's current internal analysis of product sales and are reflected for each of the periods presented in the table above. advertising, marketing, public and media relations the company's strategy is to invest in marketing and public relations programs designed to build awareness of the brand, its heritage and its products, as well as to enhance the brand's association among consumers with quality and luxury. the company regularly advertises in newspapers, magazines and through digital media. public and media relations activities are also significant to the company's business. the company engages in a program of media activities and marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the brand and tiffany &amp; co. products. it also publishes its well-known blue book to showcase its high-end jewelry. in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , the company spent $314.9 million, $299.0 million and $302.0 million, representing 7.6%, 7.5% and 7.4% of worldwide net sales in those respective years, on advertising, marketing and public and media relations, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), marketing events and other related items. in addition, management believes that the brand is enhanced by a program of charitable sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. the company also periodically makes donations to the tiffany &amp; co. foundation, a private tiffany &amp; co. k- 6 table of contents foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations. the efforts of this foundation are primarily focused on environmental conservation. trademarks the designations tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are the principal trademarks of tiffany, and also serve as tradenames. tiffany has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., as well as the tiffany blue box , the tiffany blue box design, tiffany blue and the color tiffany blue for a variety of product categories and services in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that the company's worldwide rights in its principal trademarks, tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related or unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to eradicate the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. tiffany pursues infringers through leads generated internally and through a network of investigators, legal counsel, law enforcement and customs authorities worldwide. the company responds to such infringing activity by taking various actions, including sending cease and desist letters, cooperating with law enforcement in criminal prosecutions, initiating civil proceedings and participating in joint actions and anti-counterfeiting programs with other like-minded third party rights holders. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. name and mark for the company's products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category of use in every country of the world; for example, in some countries, third parties have registered the name tiffany in connection with certain product categories (including, in the u.s., the category of bedding and, in certain foreign countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, clothing, paper goods and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany's rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany's foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of legal action. material designer license since 1974, tiffany has been the sole licensee for the intellectual property rights necessary to make and sell jewelry and other products designed by elsa peretti and bearing her trademarks. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 9%, 9% and 8% of the company's worldwide net sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . tiffany is party to an amended and restated agreement (the "peretti agreement") with ms. peretti, which largely reflects the long-standing rights and marketing and royalty obligations of the parties. pursuant to the peretti agreement, ms. peretti grants tiffany an exclusive license, in all of the countries in which peretti-designed jewelry and products are currently sold, to make, have made, advertise and sell these items. ms. peretti continues to retain ownership of the copyrights for her designs and her trademarks and remains entitled to exercise approval and consultation rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of the products made in accordance with her designs. under and in accordance with the terms set forth in the peretti agreement, tiffany is required to display the licensed products in stores, to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of the licensed products, to pay royalties to ms. peretti for the licensed products sold, to maintain total on-hand and on-order inventory of non-jewelry licensed products (such as tabletop products) at approximately $8.0 million and to take certain actions to protect ms. peretti's intellectual property, including to maintain tiffany &amp; co. k- 7 table of contents trademark registrations reasonably necessary to sell the licensed products in the markets in which the licensed products are sold by tiffany. the peretti agreement has a term that expires in 2032 and is binding upon ms. peretti, her heirs, estate, trustees and permitted assignees. during the term of the peretti agreement, ms. peretti may not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of her copyrights and trademarks unless the acquiring party expressly agrees with tiffany to be bound by the provisions of the peretti agreement. the peretti agreement is terminable by ms. peretti only in the event of a material breach by tiffany (subject to a cure period) or upon a change of control of tiffany or the company. it is terminable by tiffany only in the event of a material breach by ms. peretti or following an attempt by ms. peretti to revoke the exclusive license (subject, in each case, to a cure period). product supply chain the company's strategic priorities include maintaining substantial control over its product supply chain through internal jewelry manufacturing and direct diamond sourcing. the company manufactures jewelry in new york, rhode island and kentucky, polishes jewelry in the dominican republic and crafts silver hollowware in rhode island. in total, these internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the jewelry sold by the company. the balance, and almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third parties. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but management does not expect that the company will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to use third-party manufacturers include access to or mastery of various product-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity, product cost and the cost of capital investments. to supply its internal manufacturing facilities, the company processes, cuts and polishes rough diamonds at its facilities outside the u.s. and sources precious metals, rough diamonds, polished diamonds and other gemstones, as well as certain fabricated components, from third parties. supply of diamonds . the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for polishing and further processing. the vast majority of diamonds acquired by the company originate from botswana, canada, namibia, russia and south africa. the company has diamond processing operations in belgium, botswana, cambodia, mauritius and vietnam that prepare and/or cut and polish rough diamonds for its use. the company conducts operations in botswana through a subsidiary in which local third parties own minority, non-controlling interests, allowing the company to access rough diamond allocations reserved for local manufacturers. the company maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with these local third parties; however, if circumstances warrant, the company could seek to replace its existing local partners or operate without local partners. the company secures supplies of rough diamonds primarily through arrangements with diamond producers and, to a lesser extent, on the secondary market. most of this supply comes from arrangements in which the company accesses rough diamonds that are offered for sale (including as a sightholder or through the right to purchase a defined portion of a mine's output), although with no contractual purchase obligation for such rough diamonds. a smaller portion of rough diamond purchases is made through agreements in which the company is required to purchase a minimum volume of rough diamonds (anticipated to be approximately $45.0 million in 2018 ). all such supply arrangements are generally at the market price prevailing at the time of purchase. as a result of the manner in which rough diamonds are typically assorted for sale, it is occasionally necessary for the company to knowingly purchase, as part of a larger assortment, rough diamonds that do not meet the company's quality standards or assortment needs. the company seeks to recover its costs related to these diamonds by selling such diamonds to third parties (generally other diamond polishers), which has the effect of modestly reducing the company's overall gross margins. any such sales are included in the other non-reportable segment. in recent years, approximately 65% 75% (by dollar value) of the polished diamonds used in the company's jewelry have been produced from rough diamonds that the company has purchased. the balance of the company's needs for polished diamonds is purchased from polishers or polished-diamond dealers generally through purchase orders for fixed quantities. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party, but such a termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. it is the company's intention to continue to supply the majority of its needs for diamonds by purchasing and polishing rough diamonds. tiffany &amp; co. k- 8 table of contents products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for 57%, 59% and 59% of worldwide net sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of "conflict" diamonds. this term is used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. management believes that it is not possible in most purchasing scenarios to distinguish diamonds produced in conflict regions from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including the company and nongovernment organizations, seek to exclude "conflict" diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world's supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the kimberley process certification scheme. all rough diamonds the company buys, crossing an international border, must be accompanied by a kimberley process certificate and all trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. it is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. in addition, concerns over human rights abuses in zimbabwe, angola and the democratic republic of the congo underscore that the aforementioned system has not deterred the production of diamonds in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. the company has informed its vendors that it does not intend to purchase zimbabwean, angolan or congolese-produced diamonds. accordingly, the company has implemented the diamond source warranty protocol, which requires vendors to provide a warranty, and a qualified independent audit certificate, that loose polished diamonds were not obtained from zimbabwean, angolan or congolese mines. worldwide availability and price of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines, the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds and levels of industry liquidity. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of both rough and polished diamonds. prices for rough diamonds do not necessarily reflect current demand for polished diamonds. in addition, the supply and prices of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the diamond trading company ("dtc"), an affiliate of the de beers group. although the dtc's historical ability to control worldwide production has diminished due to its lower share of worldwide production and changing policies in diamond-producing countries, the dtc continues to supply a meaningful portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds and continues to impact diamond supply through its marketing and advertising initiatives. a significant portion of the diamonds that the company purchased in 2017 had their source with the dtc. sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect the company and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising spending of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. the company purchases conflict-free rough and polished colorless diamonds, in high color and clarity ranges. management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in these quality ranges in the short term but believes that, unless new mines are developed, rising demand will eventually create such a shortage and lead to higher prices. synthetic and treated diamonds. synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) are produced in growing quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce synthetic and/or treated diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of these diamonds, such diamonds are becoming a larger factor in the market. should synthetic and/or treated diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. the company does not produce and does not intend to purchase or sell such diamonds. purchases of precious metals and other polished gemstones . precious metals and other polished gemstones used in making jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources for use in the company's internal manufacturing operations and/or for use by third-party manufacturers contracted to supply tiffany merchandise. the silver, gold and platinum sourced directly by the company principally come from two sources: (i) in-ground, large-scale deposits of metals, primarily in the u.s., that meet the company's standards for responsible mining and (ii) metals from recycled sources. while the company may supply precious metals to a manufacturer, it cannot determine, in all tiffany &amp; co. k- 9 table of contents circumstances, whether the finished goods provided by such manufacturer were actually produced with company-supplied precious metals. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with precious metals and other polished gemstone vendors. purchases are generally made at prevailing market prices, which have, with respect to precious metals, experienced substantial volatility in recent years. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. the company believes that there are numerous alternative sources for other polished gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 50 manufacturers. however, the company does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. the company does enter into merchandise vendor agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. the merchandise vendor agreements establish non-price terms by which the company may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to the company. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities of merchandise with its vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to termination. the company actively seeks alternative sources for its best-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, the company may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . the company sells tiffany &amp; co. brand watches, which are designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the company's swiss subsidiaries. the company has relationships with approximately 30 component and subassembly vendors to manufacture watches. the terms of the company's contractual relationships with these vendors are substantially similar to those described under "finished jewelry" above. sales of these tiffany &amp; co. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015. competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. the company encounters significant competition in all product categories. some competitors specialize in just one area in which the company is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to the company and compete on the basis of that reputation. certain other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. the company competes on the basis of the brand's reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. the company's retail price for diamond jewelry reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the beauty of the diamonds, but which also increase the company's cost. the company competes in this market by emphasizing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2018 , the company employed an aggregate of approximately 13,100 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,600 are employed in the united states. tiffany &amp; co. k- 10 table of contents available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the securities and exchange commission's ("sec") public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany &amp; co. and other companies that electronically file materials with the sec. copies of the company's reports on form 10-k, form 10-q and form 8-k may be obtained, free of charge, on the company's website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm . item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the company and/or the markets in which it operates. the following "risk factors" are specific to the company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the company will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; political uncertainties and/or developments; changes in the market value of equity securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the company's sales and earnings. certain competitors may react to such conditions by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the company's sales, especially given the company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in greater china and anticipates continuing to do so. any slowdown in the chinese economy could have a negative impact on the sales and profitability of stores in greater china as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the company to forecast operating results. the company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) sales may decline or remain flat in the company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have an adverse effect on annual earnings and inventories in the short term. tiffany &amp; co. k- 11 table of contents (iii) the company conducts operations globally, the risks of which could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. the company operates globally and generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the united states. it also has both u.s. and foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain u.s. and foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. in addition, the company maintains investments in, and has provided loans to, certain foreign suppliers. as a result, the company is subject to the risks of doing business globally, including: the laws, regulations and policies of governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; uncertainties from changes in u.s. or foreign taxation policies, including, for example, as a result of recent revisions to the u.s. tax code; compliance by third party vendors and suppliers with the company's sourcing and quality standards, codes of conduct, or contractual requirements as well as applicable laws and regulations; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements; political or economic instability in foreign countries, including the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies (including diplomatic and trade relations or agreements with other countries), political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation as a result of, for example, (1) the united kingdom's ("u.k.") referendum vote to exit the european union ("e.u."), as discussed below, or (2) changes in government policies resulting from the change in the u.s. presidential administration in 2017; challenges inherent in oversight of foreign operations, systems and controls; potential negative consequences from foreign governments' currency management practices; uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; and inventory risk exposures. in june 2016, voters in the u.k. approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the e.u., commonly referred to as "brexit." negotiations have commenced to determine the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u., including terms of trade. however, there can be no assurance regarding the duration of such negotiations or the terms thereof. a withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the u.k. and the e.u., and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. there may be similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which the company does business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the u.k.'s withdrawal and its consequences, as well as the impact of any similar circumstances that may arise elsewhere in europe, could increase the company's costs and adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer discretionary purchases, including purchases of the company's products. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business. (iv) recent revisions to the u.s. tax code, including changes in the guidance related to, or interpretation and application of, such revisions could materially affect the company's tax obligations, provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the 2017 u.s. tax cuts and jobs act (the "2017 tax act"), which significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how the u.s. imposes income tax on u.s. taxpayers. in particular, these changes impact the u.s. taxation of earnings in the jurisdictions in which the company operates, the measurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities and the company's plans to repatriate the earnings of its non-u.s. subsidiaries to the u.s. the provisions of the 2017 tax act will likely be subject to further interpretation by the internal revenue service, which has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how the company will apply such provisions. changes in tax law are accounted for in the period of enactment. as a result, the company's 2017 consolidated financial statements reflect provisional estimates of the immediate tax effect of the 2017 tax act. as the company tiffany &amp; co. k- 12 table of contents refines its provisional estimate calculations, further analyzes provisions of the 2017 tax act and any subsequent guidance related thereto, these provisional estimates could be affected, which could have a material impact on the company's future financial results, including its fiscal 2018 results (see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis - 2018 outlook"). additionally, further regulatory or gaap accounting guidance regarding the 2017 tax act could also materially affect the company's future financial results. (v) a strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would negatively affect the company's sales and profitability. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including, among others, the japanese yen, euro, british pound and chinese yuan. in 2017 , sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented a substantial portion of the company's net sales and earnings from operations. a strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would require the company to raise its retail prices in various locations outside of the u.s. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, or reduce its profit margins. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a strengthening of the u.s. dollar would result in reduced sales and profitability. in addition, a weakening of any foreign currency relative to other currencies may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists in the various regions where the company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its net sales and profitability. the reported results of operations of the company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." for a discussion of such impacts. (vi) political activities, regional instability and/or conflict or similar events could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. regional and global conflicts or crises, such as military actions, terrorist activities and natural disasters, geopolitical or regulatory developments (and any related protests) and other similar events and conditions in the various regions and cities where the company operates retail stores may negatively affect spending by both foreign tourists and local consumers. the company's retail stores, many of which are located in major metropolitan areas globally, may in fact have close proximity to the locations of such events for example, the company's new york flagship store is located adjacent to a private residence of the u.s. president which has, at times, impacted consumer access as a result of security measures. the occurrence of the types of events or conditions described above, or the related effect of security measures implemented to address the possibility of such occurrences, could affect consumer traffic and/or spending in one or more of the company's locations, which could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. while sales in the company's largest store (the new york flagship) represent less than 10% of worldwide net sales, the impact of significant sales declines in any one store could still be meaningful to consolidated results. (vii) changes in the company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the company's profitability. the company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the company's geographic regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. the increasing availability of, and ease of access to, retail price information across markets, primarily through the internet, may affect consumers' decisions regarding in which geographies to shop. if the company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability. (viii) increases in costs of diamonds, other gemstones and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the company's jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, other gemstones and/or precious metals. a significant increase in the costs or change in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect the company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or tiffany &amp; co. k- 13 table of contents decrease in the cost or supply of precious metals, high-quality rough and polished diamonds (within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand) and/or other gemstones could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. additionally, should synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and/or treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) be offered in significant quantities and gain consumer acceptance, the supply of, demand for and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. (ix) the company may be unable to secure and retain sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations, and maintaining the company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires significant investment in store construction, maintenance and periodic renovation. the company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base, including potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores, as well as the renovation and relocation of its existing stores. maintaining the company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires that stores be constructed and maintained in a manner consistent with that brand image. this requires significant capital investment, including for periodic renovations of existing stores. renovations of existing stores may also result in temporary disruptions to an individual store's business. for example, the company is in the conceptual phase of a multi-year effort to renovate its new york flagship store, which will require significant capital investment and may result in business and/or consumer traffic disruptions to that store, once such renovations begin. if the company cannot secure and retain store locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, or if its investments to construct and/or renovate existing stores do not generate sufficient incremental sales and/or profitability or significantly disrupt sales and/or profitability during renovations, the company's sales and/or earnings performance could be jeopardized. (x) the value of the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement. the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the company's business, and the company takes appropriate action to protect them. the company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related goods or services and the company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. notwithstanding the general success of the company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in most markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise or merchandise that infringes the company's trademarks could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining the company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the tiffany &amp; co. brand could result in lost sales and earnings. (xi) the company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand's association with quality and luxury is integral to the success of the company's business. the company's expansion plans for retail, e-commerce and other direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this could result in lower sales and earnings. in addition, adverse publicity regarding tiffany &amp; co. and its products, as well as adverse publicity in respect of, or resulting from, the company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industries more generally, could adversely affect the company's business. for example, the company sources from third-party vendors certain products that, from time to time, may not, or may contain raw materials that do not, meet the company's sourcing and quality standards as well as applicable requirements and regulations. in such instances, although the company may have recourse against such third-party vendors, the company may self-report to the relevant regulatory agencies, recall affected products and/or pay potential fines. by way of further example, during the company's regular internal tiffany &amp; co. k- 14 table of contents quality testing in 2016, the company identified a potential breach of the company's sourcing and quality standards applicable to third party vendors. the company assessed the composition of certain of its gold products manufactured primarily by certain u.s. third-party vendors, which contained gold solder manufactured by other u.s. vendors, to determine whether such products were in compliance with applicable consumer products requirements and regulations. following this assessment, management determined that no liability was required to be recorded. any of the above could harm the tiffany &amp; co. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the tiffany &amp; co. brand, its products and the industry, and/or negatively affect the company's results of operations. the considerable expansion in the use of social media in recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. (xii) any material disruption of, or a failure to successfully implement or make changes to, information systems could negatively impact the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on its information systems to operate its business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting its results. given the complexity of the company's global business, it is critical that the company maintain the uninterrupted operation of its information systems. despite the company's preventative efforts, its information systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruption or shutdown due to power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, systems failures, security breaches or natural disasters. damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems may require a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company could suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. the company is in the process of executing its multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. these system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. while the company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. for example, in 2016 the company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $25.4 million related to software costs capitalized in connection with the development of a new finished goods inventory management and merchandising information system. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations information systems assessment" for a discussion of this impairment charge. any damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, such as those referenced above, could have a direct material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, could undermine the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational initiatives, and could also affect the company's reputation, its ability to compete effectively, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand, which could result in reduced sales and profitability. (xiii) new and existing data privacy laws and/or a significant data security breach of the company's information systems could increase the company's operational costs, subject the company to claims and otherwise adversely affect its business. the protection of customer, employee and company information is important to the company, and its customers and employees expect that their personal data will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and data privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in respect of personal data use and processing, including significant penalties for non-compliance, in the various jurisdictions in which the company does business. although the company has developed and implemented systems, policies, procedures and controls that are designed to protect personal data and company information, prevent data loss and other security breaches, and otherwise identify, assess and analyze cybersecurity risks, such measures cannot provide absolute security. for example, the company faces a complex and evolving threat landscape in which cybercriminals, nation-states and "hacktivists" employ a complex array of techniques designed to access personal data and other information, including the use of stolen access credentials, malware, ransomware, phishing, structured query language ("sql") injection attacks and distributed denial-of-service attacks, which may penetrate tiffany &amp; co. k- 15 table of contents the company's systems despite its extensive and evolving protective information security measures. further, the company relies on its software and hardware providers to issue timely patches for known vulnerabilities; however, the failure of software and hardware companies to release or to timely release effective patching and the company's reliance on patches or inability to patch software and hardware vulnerabilities, could expose it to increased risk of attack, data loss and data breach. additionally, the company's implementation of new information technology or information systems and/or increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee personal data, could expose the company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. the company's efforts to protect personal data and company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at its third-party vendors. while the company's contractual arrangements with such third-party vendors provide for the protection of personal data and company information, the company cannot control these vendors or their systems and cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future. a significant violation of applicable privacy laws or the occurrence of a cybersecurity incident resulting in breach of personal data or company information could result in the temporary suspension of some or all of the company's operating and/or information systems, damage the company's reputation, its relationships with customers, vendors and service providers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand and could result in lost data, lost sales, sizable fines, increased insurance premiums, substantial breach-notification and other remediation costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. the company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address personal data processing risks and data security threats or to investigate or address potential or actual data security or privacy breaches. (xiv) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations. the company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. although the company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. (xv) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's internal manufacturing facilities could adversely affect its business and operations. the company's internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the merchandise sold by the company. any prolonged disruption to their operations would require the company to seek alternate sources of production and could have a negative effect on inventory availability and sales until such sources are established. (xvi) there is no assurance that the company will be able to successfully grow its watch business. the company sells tiffany &amp; co. brand watches, which are designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the company's swiss subsidiaries. sales of these tiffany &amp; co. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015. the development of this watch business has required and will continue to require additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties, including: (i) significant ongoing expenditures; (ii) the need to employ highly specialized and experienced personnel; (iii) dependence on relatively small supply partners; and (iv) production and distribution inefficiencies. in addition, the company is competing with businesses with stronger market positions and has invested and will continue to invest in marketing to build customer awareness and to establish product differentiation. there is, however, no assurance that the company will be able to effectively grow its watch business or that such business will be successful in growing the company's revenues or enhancing its profitability. tiffany &amp; co. k- 16 table of contents (xvii) if the company is unable to effectively anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, or introduce new products or programs that appeal to new or existing customers, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected. the company's continued success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences for jewelry and other luxury goods, attitudes towards the global jewelry industry as a whole, as well as the manner and locations in which consumers purchase such goods. the company recognizes that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, which is compounded by the expanding use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared. the company's product development strategy is to introduce new design collections, primarily jewelry, and/or expand certain existing collections annually. if the company is unable to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, including the development of an engaging omnichannel experience for its customers, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, management intends to increase its spending in a number of areas, including technology, marketing communications, visual merchandising, digital, and store presentations, which it believes are necessary to achieve its longer term sales, margin and earnings growth objectives. such investment is also intended to build awareness of the brand, its heritage and its products, as well as to enhance the brand's association among consumers with quality and luxury. there can, however, be no assurance these strategies will appeal to new or existing customers or will result in increased sales or profitability. lastly, approximately 75% of the company's stores are located within luxury department stores and shopping malls and benefit from the ability of those locations to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in department store and/or mall traffic may negatively impact the company's ability to maintain or increase its sales in existing stores, as well as its ability to open new stores. (xviii) the price of the company's common stock may periodically rise or fall based on the company's achievement of earnings forecasts and investors' expectations. the company's strategic planning process is designed to maximize its long-term strength, growth, and profitability. management believes that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the company and its stockholders. at the same time, however, the company recognizes that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to management's annual earnings forecast. if, or when, the company announces actual results that differ from those that have been forecast by management or others, the market price of the company's common stock could be adversely affected. the company returns value to its stockholders through common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. the market price of the company's common stock could be adversely affected if the company's share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend rate differs from investors' expectations. (xix) recent changes in the company's executive management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, its business, results of operations and the price of the company's common stock. certain members of the company's executive management team have left the company in recent years, which has required the company to focus time and resources on recruiting new members of its executive management team. for example, in february 2017, frederic cumenal stepped down from his position as chief executive officer ("ceo") of the company, and the company's board of directors appointed michael j. kowalski (chairman of the board and former ceo at the time of appointment) as the company's interim ceo. in october 2017, alessandro bogliolo joined the company as ceo replacing mr. kowalski, who stepped down from that role. any further changes in the company's executive management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, the company's business, and could have a negative impact on the company's ability to manage and grow its business effectively, its results of operations and the price of the company's common stock. tiffany &amp; co. k- 17 table of contents (xx) environmental and climate changes could affect the company's business. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries and has both domestic and foreign manufacturing operations that are susceptible to the risks associated with climate change. such risks include those related to the physical impacts of climate change, such as more frequent and severe weather events and/or long term shifts in climate patterns, and risks related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy, such as reputational, market and/or regulatory risks. climate change and climate events could result in social, cultural and economic disruptions in these areas, including supply chain disruptions, the disruption of local infrastructure and transportation systems that could limit the ability of the company's employees and/or its customers to access the company's stores or manufacturing locations, damage to such stores or locations or reductions in material availability and quality. these events could also compound adverse economic conditions and impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending. despite the fact that the company is pursuing numerous initiatives to reduce its environmental footprint, including efforts related to energy efficiency, renewable energy use and carbon offsets, there remains the risk that insufficient global cooperation could lead to increased negative impacts from climate change. while the company has an ongoing program for reviewing its vulnerability to the impacts of severe weather events and other risks associated with climate change, these events could nonetheless negatively affect the company's business and operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk k- 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset a portion of the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the maximum term of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2018 is 12 months. at january 31, 2018 and 2017 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forwards was a net liability of $5.1 million and a net asset of $7.1 million , respectively. the company entered into cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk associated with japanese yen-denominated intercompany loans. these cross-currency swaps are designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. as of january 31, 2018 , the notional amounts of cross-currency swaps accounted for as cash flow hedges and the respective maturity dates were as follows: cross-currency swap notional amount effective date maturity date (in billions) (in millions) july 2016 october 1, 2024 10.6 $ 100.0 march 2017 april 1, 2027 11.0 96.1 may 2017 april 1, 2027 5.6 50.0 at january 31, 2018 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding cross-currency swaps was a net liability of $20.2 million . at january 31, 2018 , for all of the contracts and swaps noted above, a 10% decrease in the hedged foreign currency exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $90.0 million. precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations in order to manage the effect of volatility in precious metal prices. the company may use a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ("precious metal collars") or forward contracts. if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar would expire at no cost to the company. the maximum term of the company's outstanding precious metal forward contracts and collars as of january 31, 2018 is 17 months. at january 31, 2018 and 2017 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding precious metal derivative instruments was a net asset of $1.7 million and a net liability of $1.7 million, respectively. at january 31, 2018 , a 10% decrease in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $9.0 million. tiffany &amp; co. k- 49 table of contentsrisk factors k- 12 risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the company and/or the markets in which it operates. the following "risk factors" are specific to the company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the company will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; domestic and international political uncertainties and/or developments; changes in the market value of equity securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the company's sales and earnings. certain competitors may react to such conditions by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the company's sales, especially given the company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in greater china and anticipates continuing to do so. any slowdown in the chinese economy could have a negative impact on the sales and profitability of stores in greater china as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the company to forecast operating results. the company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) sales may decline or remain flat in the company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have an adverse effect on annual earnings and inventories in the short term. (iii) the company conducts operations globally, the risks of which could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. the company operates globally and generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the united states. it also has both u.s. and foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain u.s. and foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. as a result, the company is subject to the risks of doing business globally, including: the laws, regulations and policies of governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; uncertainties from changes in u.s. or foreign taxation policies, including, for example, as a result of recent revisions to the u.s. tax code; compliance by third party vendors and suppliers with the company's sourcing and quality standards, codes of conduct, or contractual requirements as well as applicable laws and regulations; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements; tiffany &amp; co. k- 12 table of contents political or economic instability in foreign countries, including the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies, such as the united kingdom's ("u.k.") referendum vote to exit the european union ("e.u."), as discussed below; political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation as a result of, for example, changes in government policies of foreign countries in response to actions taken by the u.s. government; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges or other barriers to trade, including as a result of changes in diplomatic and trade relations or agreements with other countries; challenges inherent in oversight of foreign operations, systems and controls; potential negative consequences from foreign governments' currency management practices; uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; and inventory risk exposures. changes in these regulatory, political, economic, or monetary policies and other factors could require the company to significantly modify its current business practices and may adversely affect its future financial results. for example, the company could be adversely impacted by u.s. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including trade policies and tariffs affecting china, the e.u., canada and mexico, as well as retaliatory tariffs by such countries. such tariffs and, if enacted, any further legislation or actions taken by the u.s. government that restrict trade, such as additional tariffs or trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments in europe, asia and elsewhere, could have a negative effect on the company's ability to sell products in those markets. additionally, in june 2016, voters in the u.k. approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the e.u., commonly referred to as "brexit." in march 2017, the u.k. government initiated the exit process under article 50 of the treaty of the european union, commencing a two year period for the u.k. and the other e.u. member states to negotiate the terms of the u.k.'s withdrawal, with such period scheduled to expire on march 29, 2019, unless extended. in november 2018, the u.k. and e.u. agreed upon a draft withdrawal agreement that sets out the terms of the u.k.'s withdrawal which, among other terms, includes a transition period from march 29, 2019 through december 31, 2020 to allow time for a future trade deal to be agreed upon. on january 15, 2019, the draft withdrawal agreement was rejected by the u.k. parliament, creating significant uncertainty about the terms (and timing) under which the u.k. will exit the e.u. if the u.k. leaves the e.u. with no agreement, it will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade, in addition to creating further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility. brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the u.k. and e.u. the company may incur additional costs and expenses as it adapts to these potentially divergent regulatory frameworks, and may face additional complexity with regard to immigration and travel rights for its employees located in the u.k. and the e.u. there may also be similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which the company does business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the u.k.'s withdrawal and its consequences, as well as the impact of any similar circumstances that may arise elsewhere in europe, could increase the company's costs and adversely impact consumer and investor confidence. while these factors, and the effect thereof, are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business. (iv) recent revisions to the u.s. tax code, including changes in the guidance related to, or interpretation and application of, such revisions could materially affect the company's tax obligations, provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the 2017 u.s. tax cuts and jobs act (the "2017 tax act"), which significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how the u.s. imposes income tax on u.s. taxpayers. in particular, these changes impact the u.s. taxation of earnings in the jurisdictions in which the company operates, the measurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities and the tax impact in the event the company were to repatriate the earnings of its non-u.s. subsidiaries to the u.s. the provisions of the 2017 tax act may be subject to further interpretation by the internal revenue service, which has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how the company will apply such provisions. tiffany &amp; co. k- 13 table of contents changes in tax law are accounted for in the period of enactment. as a result, the company's 2017 consolidated financial statements reflected provisional estimates of the immediate tax effect of the 2017 tax act. during 2018, as permitted by the securities and exchange commission's staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ("sab 118"), the company (i) recorded tax benefits totaling $12.6 million to adjust the provisional estimate recorded in 2017 to remeasure the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities; (ii) recorded tax benefits totaling $3.3 million to adjust the provisional estimate recorded in 2017 for the transition tax; and (iii) determined to maintain its assertion to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and profits. further regulatory or accounting guidance regarding the 2017 tax act could materially affect the company's future financial results. (v) a strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would negatively affect the company's sales and profitability. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including, among others, the japanese yen, euro, british pound and chinese yuan. in 2018 , sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented a substantial portion of the company's net sales and earnings from operations. a strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would require the company to raise its retail prices in various locations outside of the u.s. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, or reduce its profit margins. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a strengthening of the u.s. dollar would result in reduced sales and profitability. in addition, a weakening of any foreign currency relative to other currencies may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists in the various regions where the company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its net sales and profitability. the reported results of operations of the company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a discussion of such impacts. (vi) political activities, regional instability and/or conflict or similar events could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. regional and global conflicts or crises, such as military actions, terrorist activities and natural disasters, geopolitical or regulatory developments (and any related protests) and other similar events and conditions in the various regions and cities where the company operates retail stores may negatively affect spending by both foreign tourists and local consumers. the company's retail stores, many of which are located in major metropolitan areas globally, may in fact have close proximity to the locations of such events for example, the company's new york flagship store is located adjacent to a private residence of the u.s. president which has, at times, impacted consumer access as a result of security measures. the occurrence of the types of events or conditions described above, or the related effect of security measures implemented to address the possibility of such occurrences, could affect consumer traffic and/or spending in one or more of the company's locations, which could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. while sales in the company's largest store (the new york flagship) represent less than 10% of worldwide net sales, the impact of significant sales declines in any one store could still be meaningful to consolidated results. (vii) changes in the company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the company's profitability. the company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the company's geographic regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. the increasing availability of, and ease of access to, retail price information across markets, primarily through the internet, may affect consumers' decisions regarding in which geographies to shop. if the company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability. tiffany &amp; co. k- 14 table of contents (viii) increases in costs of diamonds, other gemstones and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the company's jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, other gemstones and/or precious metals. a significant increase in the costs or change in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect the company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of precious metals, high-quality rough and polished diamonds (within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand) and/or other gemstones could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. additionally, should synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and/or treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) be offered in significant quantities and gain consumer acceptance, the supply of, demand for and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. (ix) the company may be unable to secure and retain sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations, and maintaining the company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires significant investment in store construction, maintenance and periodic renovation. the company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base, including potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores, as well as the renovation and relocation of its existing stores. maintaining the company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires that stores be constructed and maintained in a manner consistent with that brand image. this requires significant capital investment, including for periodic renovations of existing stores. renovations of existing stores may also result in temporary disruptions to an individual store's business. if the company cannot secure and retain store locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, or if its investments to construct and/or renovate existing stores do not generate sufficient incremental sales and/or profitability or significantly disrupt sales and/or profitability during renovations, the company's sales and/or earnings performance could be jeopardized. for example, in 2018 the company announced its plans to undertake a complete renovation of its new york flagship store, beginning in the spring of 2019 and with an anticipated completion date in the fourth quarter of 2021. this renovation project will require significant capital investment, and while the company has secured an adjacent temporary retail location, it may result in business and/or consumer traffic disruptions to that location. significant delays or cost overruns are also possible during the three year construction period, which could significantly increase the cost of this renovation project and adversely impact the company's future financial results. there can be no assurance that the results of this renovation project will appeal to the company's customers or will increase the company's sales or profitability. (x) the value of the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement. the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the company's business, and the company takes appropriate action to protect them. the company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related goods or services and the company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. notwithstanding the general success of the company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in most markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise or merchandise that infringes the company's trademarks could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining the company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the tiffany &amp; co. brand could result in lost sales and earnings. tiffany &amp; co. k- 15 table of contents (xi) the company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand's association with quality and luxury is integral to the success of the company's business. the company's expansion plans for retail, e-commerce and other direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this could result in lower sales and earnings. in addition, adverse publicity regarding tiffany &amp; co. and its products, as well as adverse publicity in respect of, or resulting from, the company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industries more generally, could adversely affect the company's business. for example, the company sources from third-party vendors certain products that, from time to time, may not, or may contain raw materials that do not, meet the company's sourcing and quality standards as well as applicable requirements and regulations. in such instances, although the company may have recourse against such third-party vendors, the company may self-report to the relevant regulatory agencies, recall affected products and/or pay potential fines. any of the above could harm the tiffany &amp; co. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the tiffany &amp; co. brand, its products and the industry, and/or negatively affect the company's results of operations. the considerable expansion in the use of social media in recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. (xii) any material disruption of, or a failure to successfully implement or make changes to, information systems could negatively impact the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on its information systems to operate its business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting its results. given the complexity of the company's global business, it is critical that the company maintain the uninterrupted operation of its information systems. despite the company's preventative efforts, its information systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruption or shutdown due to power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, systems failures, security breaches or natural disasters. damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems may require a significant investment to repair or replace them, and the company could suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. the company is in the process of executing its multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. these system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. while the company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will be implemented without delays, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. any damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, such as those referenced above, could have a direct material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, could undermine the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational initiatives, and could also affect the company's reputation, its ability to compete effectively, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand, which could result in reduced sales and profitability. (xiii) new and existing data privacy laws and/or a significant data security breach of the company's information systems could increase the company's operational costs, subject the company to claims and otherwise adversely affect its business. the protection of customer, employee and company information is important to the company, and its customers and employees expect that their personal data will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and data privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements tiffany &amp; co. k- 16 table of contents in respect of personal data use and processing, including significant penalties for non-compliance, in the various jurisdictions in which the company does business. for example, the general data protection regulation that came into force in the e.u. in may 2018 has caused, and will continue to cause, the company to incur additional compliance costs related thereto. although the company has developed and implemented systems, policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to protect personal data and company information, prevent data loss and other security breaches, and otherwise identify, assess and analyze cybersecurity risks, such measures cannot provide absolute security. for example, the company faces a complex and evolving threat landscape in which cybercriminals, nation-states and "hacktivists" employ a complex array of techniques designed to access personal data and other information, including the use of stolen access credentials, malware, ransomware, phishing, structured query language ("sql") injection attacks and distributed denial-of-service attacks, which may penetrate the company's systems despite its extensive and evolving protective information security measures. further, the company relies on its software and hardware providers to issue timely patches for known vulnerabilities; however, the failure of software and hardware companies to release or to timely release effective patching and the company's reliance on patches or inability to patch software and hardware vulnerabilities, could expose it to increased risk of attack, data loss and data breach. the company has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, attempts from cybercriminals and other third parties to gain unauthorized access to its information technology and other information systems. although these attempts have not had a material impact on the company to date, in the future the company could experience attacks that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, the company's implementation of new information technology or information systems and/or increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee personal data, could expose the company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. the company's efforts to protect personal data and company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at its third-party vendors. while the company's contractual arrangements with such third-party vendors provide for the protection of personal data and company information, the company cannot control these vendors or their systems and cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future. a significant violation of applicable privacy laws or the occurrence of a cybersecurity incident resulting in breach of personal data or company information could result in the temporary suspension of some or all of the company's operating and/or information systems, damage the company's reputation, its relationships with customers, vendors and service providers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand and could result in lost data, lost sales, sizable fines, increased insurance premiums, substantial breach-notification and other remediation costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. the company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address personal data processing risks and data security threats or to investigate or address potential or actual data security or privacy breaches. (xiv) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations. the company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. although the company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. (xv) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's internal manufacturing facilities could adversely affect its business and operations. the company's internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the jewelry sold by the company. any prolonged disruption to their operations would require the company to seek alternate sources of production and could have a negative effect on inventory availability and sales until such sources are established. tiffany &amp; co. k- 17 table of contents (xvi) there is no assurance that the company will be able to successfully grow its watch business. the company sells tiffany &amp; co. brand watches, which are designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the company's subsidiaries. sales of these tiffany &amp; co. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016. the development of this watch business has required and will continue to require additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties, including: (i) significant ongoing expenditures; (ii) the need to employ highly specialized and experienced personnel; (iii) dependence on relatively small supply partners; and (iv) production and distribution inefficiencies. in addition, the company is competing with businesses with stronger market positions and has invested and will continue to invest in marketing to build customer awareness and to establish product differentiation. there is, however, no assurance that the company will be able to effectively grow its watch business or that such business will be successful in growing the company's revenues or enhancing its profitability. (xvii) if the company is unable to effectively anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, or introduce new products or programs that appeal to new or existing customers, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected. the company's continued success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences for jewelry and other luxury goods, attitudes towards the global jewelry industry as a whole, as well as the manner and locations in which consumers purchase such goods. the company recognizes that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, which is compounded by the expanding use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared. the company's product development strategy is to introduce new design collections, primarily jewelry, and/or expand certain existing collections annually. if the company is unable to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, including the development of an engaging omnichannel experience for its customers, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2018 management increased its spending in a number of areas, including technology, marketing communications, visual merchandising, digital, and store presentations, which it believes are necessary to achieve its longer term sales, margin and earnings growth objectives. such investment is also intended to build awareness of the brand, its heritage and its products, as well as to enhance the brand's association among consumers with quality and luxury. management intends to maintain comparable levels of spending in these areas in 2019. however, there can be no assurance these strategies will appeal to new or existing customers or that these expenditures will result in increased sales or profitability. lastly, approximately 75% of the company's stores are located within luxury department stores and shopping malls and benefit from the ability of those locations to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in department store and/or mall traffic may negatively impact the company's ability to maintain or increase its sales in existing stores, as well as its ability to open new stores. (xviii) the price of the company's common stock may periodically rise or fall based on the company's achievement of earnings forecasts and investors' expectations. the company's strategic planning process is designed to maximize its long-term strength, growth, and profitability. management believes that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the company and its stockholders. at the same time, however, the company recognizes that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to management's annual earnings forecast. if, or when, the company announces actual results that differ from those that have been forecast by management or others, the market price of the company's common stock could be adversely affected. the company returns value to its stockholders through common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. the market price of the company's common stock could be adversely affected if the company's share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend rate differs from investors' expectations. tiffany &amp; co. k- 18 table of contents (xix) environmental and climate changes could affect the company's business. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries and has both domestic and foreign manufacturing operations that are susceptible to the risks associated with climate change. such risks include those related to the physical impacts of climate change, such as more frequent and severe weather events and/or long term shifts in climate patterns, and risks related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy, such as reputational, market and/or regulatory risks. climate change and climate events could result in social, cultural and economic disruptions in these areas, including supply chain disruptions, the disruption of local infrastructure and transportation systems that could limit the ability of the company's employees and/or its customers to access the company's stores or manufacturing locations, damage to such stores or locations or reductions in material availability and quality. these events could also compound adverse economic conditions and impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending. despite the fact that the company is pursuing numerous initiatives to reduce its environmental footprint, including efforts related to energy efficiency, renewable energy use and carbon offsets, there remains the risk that insufficient global cooperation could lead to increased negative impacts from climate change. while the company has an ongoing program for reviewing its vulnerability to the impacts of severe weather events and other risks associated with climate change, these events could nonetheless negatively affect the company's business and operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk k- 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset a portion of the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the maximum term of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2019 is 12 months. at january 31, 2019 and 2018 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forwards was a net liability of $2.1 million and a net liability of $5.1 million , respectively. the company entered into cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk associated with japanese yen-denominated intercompany loans. these cross-currency swaps are designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. as of january 31, 2019 , the notional amounts of cross-currency swaps accounted for as cash flow hedges and the respective maturity dates were as follows: cross-currency swap notional amount effective date maturity date (in billions) (in millions) july 2016 october 1, 2024 10.6 $ 100.0 march 2017 april 1, 2027 11.0 96.1 may 2017 april 1, 2027 5.6 50.0 at january 31, 2019 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding cross-currency swaps was a net liability of $19.9 million . at january 31, 2019 , for all of the contracts and swaps noted above, a 10% decrease in the hedged foreign currency exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $101.0 million . precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations in order to manage the effect of volatility in precious metal prices. the company may use a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ("precious metal collars") or forward contracts. if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar would expire at no cost to the company. the maximum term of the company's outstanding precious metal forward contracts and collars as of january 31, 2019 is 17 months. at january 31, 2019 and 2018 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding precious metal derivative instruments was a net asset of $2.5 million and a net asset of $1.7 million , respectively. at january 31, 2019 , a 10% decrease in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $12.0 million . tiffany &amp; co. k- 49 table of contentsrisk factors k- 13 risk factors" and "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2020, the definitive proxy statement on schedule 14a that the company filed on january 6, 2020, and in the company's other filings made with the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec") from time to time, which are available via the sec's website at www.sec.gov. readers of this annual report on form 10-k should consider the risks, uncertainties and factors outlined above and in this form 10-k in evaluating, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on, the forward-looking statements contained herein. the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by applicable law or regulation. tiffany &amp; co. k- 3 table of contents part i item 1. business. general history and narrative description of business tiffany &amp; co. (the "registrant") is a holding company that operates through tiffany and company ("tiffany") and the registrant's other subsidiary companies (collectively, the "company"). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany's business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant's common stock in 1987. the registrant, through its subsidiaries, sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. entry into merger agreement on november 24, 2019, the registrant entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the "merger agreement") by and among the registrant, lvmh mo t hennessy louis vuitton se, a societas europaea (european company) organized under the laws of france ("parent"), breakfast holdings acquisition corp., a delaware corporation and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of parent ("holding"), and breakfast acquisition corp., a delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of holding ("merger sub"). pursuant to the merger agreement, merger sub will be merged with and into the registrant (the "merger"), with the registrant continuing as the surviving company in the merger and a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of parent. subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the merger agreement, at the effective time of the merger (the "effective time"), each share of common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time (other than shares of common stock owned by the registrant, parent or any of their respective wholly owned subsidiaries, and shares of common stock owned by stockholders of the registrant who have properly demanded and not withdrawn a demand for appraisal rights under delaware law) will be converted into the right to receive $135.00 in cash, without interest and less any required tax withholding. the consummation of the proposed merger is subject to various conditions, including, among others, customary conditions relating to (a) the adoption of the merger agreement by holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the registrant's common stock entitled to vote on such matter at the meeting of stockholders of the registrant (the "special meeting") held to vote on the adoption of the merger agreement and (b) the expiration or earlier termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976 (as amended, and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, collectively, the "hsr act"). as previously announced, on february 3, 2020, the waiting period under the hsr act in connection with the proposed merger expired, and on february 4, 2020, the company held the special meeting, at which the holders of shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of the close of business on the record date for the special meeting considered and voted to approve (i) the adoption of the merger agreement and (ii) by non-binding, advisory vote, certain compensation arrangements for the company's named executive officers in connection with the proposed merger. the proposed merger remains subject to satisfaction or waiver of the remaining customary closing conditions, including, among others, (a) certain non-u.s. regulatory approvals, (b) clearance by the committee on foreign investment in the united states ("cfius"), (c) the absence of a law or order in effect that enjoins, prevents or otherwise prohibits the consummation of the proposed merger or any other transactions contemplated under the merger agreement issued by a governmental entity; (d) the absence of any legal proceeding seeking to enjoin, prevent or otherwise prohibit the consummation of the proposed merger or any other transactions contemplated under the merger agreement instituted by a governmental entity of competent jurisdiction; and (e) the absence of a material adverse effect (as defined in the merger agreement). the obligation of each party to consummate the proposed merger is also conditioned on the accuracy of the other party's representations and warranties (subject to certain materiality exceptions) and the other party's compliance, in all material respects, with its covenants and agreements under the merger agreement. the merger agreement provides for certain customary termination rights of the registrant and parent, including the right of either party to terminate the merger agreement if the merger is not completed on or before august 24, 2020 (the "outside date"), provided that the outside date may be extended up to an additional 90 days by either party if all conditions are satisfied other than the receipt of regulatory approvals and cfius clearance or absence of legal tiffany &amp; co. k- 4 table of contents restraints. the merger agreement also provides that the registrant will be required to pay parent a termination fee of $575.0 million in certain circumstances. for additional information related to the merger agreement, please refer to the company's definitive proxy statement on schedule 14a (the "definitive proxy statement") filed with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec") on january 6, 2020. maintenance of the tiffany &amp; co. brand the tiffany &amp; co. brand (the "brand") is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the company. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see "trademarks" below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; sophisticated style and romance; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; "classic" product positioning; and distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany &amp; co. blue box). tiffany's business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the brand, such as the following: maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory, as well as platinum and gold, which carry a lower overall gross margin; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range; to provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals; elegant stores in the best "high street" and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the brand's luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands; while the "classic" positioning of much of tiffany's product line supports the brand and requires sufficient display space in its stores, management's strategic priorities also include the accelerated introduction of new design collections primarily in jewelry, but also in non-jewelry products, which could result in a necessary reallocation of product display space; tiffany's packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the brand but is expensive; and a significant amount of marketing across print, digital and social media, as well as public relations events are required to both reinforce the brand's association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and earnings and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, marketing or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if any tradeoff between sales and earnings is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and may in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable product, marketing or distribution initiatives. reportable segments the company has four reportable segments: (i) americas, (ii) asia-pacific, (iii) japan and (iv) europe. all non-reportable segments are included within other. the company transacts business within certain of its segments through the following channels: (i) retail, (ii) internet, (iii) catalog, (iv) business-to-business (products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market) and (v) wholesale distribution (merchandise sold to independent distributors for resale). the company's segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2020 , 2019 and 2018 is reported in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data - note q. segment information." tiffany &amp; co. k- 5 table of contents americas sales in the americas represented 43% of worldwide net sales in 2019 , while sales in the united states ("u.s.") represented 86% of net sales in the americas. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail (in the u.s., canada and latin america), internet and catalog (in the u.s. and canada), business-to-business (in the u.s.) and wholesale distribution (in latin america and the caribbean). retail sales in the americas are transacted in 124 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2020 included in parentheses): the u.s. (94), canada (13), mexico (10), brazil (6) and chile (1). included within these totals are 14 company-operated stores located within various department stores in canada and mexico. included in the u.s. retail stores is the new york flagship store, which represented less than 10% of worldwide net sales in 2019. asia-pacific sales in asia-pacific represented 28% of worldwide net sales in 2019 , while sales in greater china represented approximately 60% of net sales in asia-pacific. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet (in australia and china), business-to-business (in china) and wholesale distribution. retail sales in asia-pacific are transacted in 91 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2020 included in parentheses): china (34), korea (15), australia (11), hong kong (10), taiwan (7), singapore (5), macau (4), malaysia (2), thailand (2) and new zealand (1). included within these totals are 35 company-operated stores located within various department stores. japan sales in japan represented 15% of worldwide net sales in 2019 . sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet, business-to-business and wholesale distribution. retail sales in japan are transacted in 58 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores. included within this total are 53 stores located within department stores, generating approximately 75% of net sales in japan. there are four large department store groups in japan. the company operates tiffany &amp; co. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at january 31, 2020 included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi ltd. (14), takashimaya co., ltd. (9), j. front retailing co., ltd. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (8) and seven &amp; i holding co., ltd. (sogo and seibu department stores) (4). the company also operates 18 stores in other department stores. europe sales in europe represented 11% of worldwide net sales in 2019 , while sales in the united kingdom ("u.k.") represented approximately 40% of net sales in europe. sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, internet and wholesale distribution. retail sales in europe are transacted in 48 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2020 included in parentheses): the u.k. (12), italy (9), germany (7), france (5), spain (3), switzerland (3), the netherlands (2), russia (2), austria (1), belgium (1), the czech republic (1), denmark (1) and ireland (1). included within these totals are 11 company-operated stores located within various department stores. the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites within the following countries: u.k., austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain. other other consists of all non-reportable segments, including: (i) retail sales transacted in five company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in the united arab emirates ("u.a.e.") and wholesale distribution in the emerging markets region; (ii) wholesale sales of diamonds (see "product supply chain supply of diamonds" below); and (iii) licensing agreements. tiffany &amp; co. k- 6 table of contents licensing agreements. the company receives earnings from a licensing agreement with luxottica group s.p.a., for the development, production and distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand eyewear, and from a licensing agreement with coty inc., for the development, production and distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand fragrance products. the earnings received from these licensing agreements represented less than 1% of worldwide net sales in 2019 . retail distribution base management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base. this includes evaluating potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores, as well as the renovation, relocation, or closure of existing stores. considerations include the characteristics of the markets to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany &amp; co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a number of opportunities remaining in new and existing markets that will meet the requirements for a tiffany &amp; co. location in the future. the following chart details the number of tiffany &amp; co. retail locations operated by the company since 2015: americas year: u.s. canada &amp; latin america asia-pacific japan europe emerging markets total 2015 95 29 81 56 41 5 307 2016 95 30 85 55 43 5 313 2017 94 30 87 54 46 4 315 2018 93 31 90 55 47 5 321 2019 94 30 91 58 48 5 326 e-commerce, catalog and phone orders the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 14 countries, as well as informational websites in several additional countries. to a lesser extent, sales are also generated through catalogs that the company distributes in certain countries as well as orders placed via telephone in certain markets. sales transacted on those websites, through catalogs or via telephone accounted for 7% of worldwide net sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . management believes that its websites serve an important marketing role in building brand awareness and attracting customers to the company's stores. in addition, the company offers a select assortment of its products through third party websites. products the company's principal product category is jewelry, which represented 92%, 92% and 91% of worldwide net sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the company offers an extensive selection of tiffany &amp; co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent "named" designers (see "material designer license" below). the company also sells watches, home and accessories products and fragrances, which represented, in total, 6%, 7% and 7% of worldwide net sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the remainder of worldwide net sales was attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings from third-party licensing agreements. tiffany &amp; co. k- 7 table of contents sales by reportable segment of tiffany &amp; co. jewelry by category 2019 % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales jewelry collections a 55 % 63 % 38 % 60 % 55 % engagement jewelry b 21 % 29 % 38 % 24 % 26 % designer jewelry c 14 % 6 % 17 % 12 % 12 % 2018 jewelry collections a 53 % 61 % 37 % 60 % 54 % engagement jewelry b 21 % 31 % 37 % 23 % 26 % designer jewelry c 14 % 7 % 18 % 12 % 12 % 2017 jewelry collections a 53 % 59 % 30 % 60 % 52 % engagement jewelry b 22 % 31 % 39 % 25 % 27 % designer jewelry c 14 % 8 % 22 % 12 % 13 % a) this category includes jewelry in a wide range of prices within the company's high jewelry and named jewelry collections such as tiffany paper flowers , tiffany victoria , tiffany soleste , tiffany keys, tiffany t, tiffany hardwear and return to tiffany , among others. jewelry in this category is primarily crafted using precious metals (platinum, gold or sterling silver) and may contain diamonds and/or other gemstones. b) this category includes engagement rings and wedding bands. most jewelry in this category contains diamonds and is constructed of platinum and/or gold. c) this category includes only jewelry that is attributed to one of the company's "named" designers: elsa peretti (see "material designer license" below), paloma picasso and jean schlumberger. jewelry in this category is primarily crafted using precious metals (platinum, gold or sterling silver) and may contain diamonds and/or other gemstones. advertising, marketing, public and media relations the company's strategy is to invest in marketing and public relations programs designed to build awareness of the brand, its heritage and its products, as well as to enhance the brand's relevance and association among consumers with quality and luxury. the company regularly advertises in newspapers and magazines, as well as through digital and social media. public and media relations activities are also significant to the company's business. the company engages in a program of media activities and marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the brand and tiffany &amp; co. products. it also publishes its well-known blue book to showcase its high-end jewelry. in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , the company spent $378.8 million, $394.1 million and $314.9 million, representing 8.6%, 8.9% and 7.6% of worldwide net sales in those respective years, on advertising, marketing and public and media relations, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), marketing events and other related items. in addition, management believes that the brand is enhanced by philanthropic efforts, including charitable sponsorships and monetary and merchandise donations. the company also periodically makes donations to the tiffany &amp; co. foundation, a private foundation established to support nonprofit organizations. the philanthropic efforts of this foundation are primarily focused on environmental conservation. tiffany &amp; co. k- 8 table of contents trademarks the designations tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are the principal trademarks of tiffany, and also serve as tradenames. tiffany has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., as well as the tiffany blue box , the tiffany blue box design, tiffany blue and the color tiffany blue for a variety of product categories and services in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that the company's worldwide rights in its principal trademarks, tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related or unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to eradicate the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. tiffany pursues infringers through leads generated internally and through a network of investigators, legal counsel, law enforcement and customs authorities worldwide. the company responds to such infringing activity by taking various actions, including sending cease and desist letters, cooperating with law enforcement in criminal prosecutions, initiating civil proceedings and participating in joint actions and anti-counterfeiting programs with other like-minded third party rights holders. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. name and mark for the company's products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category of use in every country of the world; for example, in some countries, third parties have registered the name tiffany in connection with certain product categories (including, in the u.s., the category of bedding and, in certain foreign countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, clothing, paper goods and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany's rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany's foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of legal action. material designer license since 1974, tiffany has been the sole licensee for the intellectual property rights necessary to make and sell jewelry and other products designed by elsa peretti and bearing her trademarks. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 7%, 8% and 9% of the company's worldwide net sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. tiffany is party to an amended and restated agreement (the "peretti agreement") with ms. peretti, which largely reflects the long-standing rights and marketing and royalty obligations of the parties. pursuant to the peretti agreement, ms. peretti grants tiffany an exclusive license, in all of the countries in which peretti-designed jewelry and products are currently sold, to make, have made, advertise and sell these items. ms. peretti continues to retain ownership of the copyrights for her designs and her trademarks and remains entitled to exercise approval and consultation rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of the products made in accordance with her designs. under and in accordance with the terms set forth in the peretti agreement, tiffany is required to display the licensed products in stores, to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of the licensed products, to pay royalties to ms. peretti for the licensed products sold, to maintain total on-hand and on-order inventory of non-jewelry licensed products (such as tabletop products) at approximately $8.0 million and to take certain actions to protect ms. peretti's intellectual property, including to maintain trademark registrations reasonably necessary to sell the licensed products in the markets in which the licensed products are sold by tiffany. the peretti agreement has a term that expires in 2032 and is binding upon ms. peretti, her heirs, estate, trustees and permitted assignees. during the term of the peretti agreement, ms. peretti may not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of her copyrights and trademarks unless the acquiring party expressly agrees with tiffany to be bound by the tiffany &amp; co. k- 9 table of contents provisions of the peretti agreement. the peretti agreement is terminable by ms. peretti in the event of a material breach by tiffany (subject to a cure period) or upon a change of control of tiffany or the company. it is terminable by tiffany only in the event of a material breach by ms. peretti or following an attempt by ms. peretti to revoke the exclusive license (subject, in each case, to a cure period). product supply chain the company's strategic priorities include maintaining substantial control over its product supply chain through internal jewelry manufacturing and direct diamond sourcing. the company manufactures jewelry in new york, rhode island and kentucky, polishes and performs certain assembly work on jewelry in the dominican republic and crafts silver hollowware in rhode island. in total, these internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the jewelry sold by the company. the balance, and almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third parties. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but management does not expect that the company will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to use third-party manufacturers include access to or mastery of various product-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity, product cost and the cost of capital investments. to supply its internal manufacturing facilities, the company processes, cuts and polishes rough diamonds at its facilities outside the u.s. and sources precious metals, rough diamonds, polished diamonds and other gemstones, as well as certain fabricated components, from third parties. supply of diamonds . the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for polishing and further processing. the vast majority of diamonds acquired by the company originate from botswana, canada, namibia, russia and south africa. the company has diamond processing operations in belgium, botswana, cambodia, mauritius and vietnam that prepare and/or cut and polish rough diamonds for its use. the company conducts operations in botswana through a subsidiary in which local third parties own minority, non-controlling interests, allowing the company to access rough diamond allocations reserved for local manufacturers. the company maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with these local third parties; however, if circumstances warrant, the company could seek to replace its existing local partners or operate without local partners. the company secures supplies of rough diamonds primarily through arrangements with diamond producers and, to a lesser extent, on the secondary market. most of this supply comes from arrangements in which the company accesses rough diamonds that are offered for sale (including as a sightholder), although with no contractual purchase obligation for such rough diamonds. a smaller portion of rough diamond purchases is made through agreements in which the company is required to purchase a minimum volume of rough diamonds (anticipated to be approximately $30.0 million in 2020 ). all such supply arrangements are generally at the market price prevailing at the time of purchase. as a result of the manner in which rough diamonds are typically assorted for sale, it is occasionally necessary for the company to knowingly purchase, as part of a larger assortment, rough diamonds that do not meet the company's quality standards or assortment needs. the company seeks to recover its costs related to these diamonds by selling such diamonds to third parties (generally other diamond polishers), which has the effect of modestly reducing the company's overall gross margins. any such sales are included in the other non-reportable segment. in recent years, an average of approximately 75% (by volume) of the polished diamonds used in the company's jewelry that are 0.18 carats and larger and individually registered ("individually registered diamonds") has been produced from rough diamonds that the company has purchased. the balance of the company's needs for individually registered diamonds is purchased from polishers or polished-diamond dealers generally through purchase orders for fixed quantities. the company's relationships with polishers and polished-diamond dealers may be terminated at any time by either party, but such a termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. it is the company's intention to continue to supply the substantial majority of its needs for individually registered diamonds, as well as a majority of its needs for melee diamonds of less than 0.18 carats used in the company's jewelry, by purchasing rough diamonds. conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of "conflict" diamonds. this term is used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. management believes that it is not possible in most purchasing scenarios to distinguish diamonds produced in conflict regions from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including the tiffany &amp; co. k- 10 table of contents company and nongovernment organizations, seek to exclude "conflict" diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world's supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the kimberley process certification scheme. all rough diamonds the company buys, crossing an international border, must be accompanied by a kimberley process certificate and all trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. it is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. in addition, concerns over human rights abuses in zimbabwe, angola and the democratic republic of the congo underscore that the aforementioned system has not deterred the production of diamonds in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. the company has informed its vendors that it does not intend to purchase zimbabwean, angolan or congolese-produced diamonds. accordingly, the company has implemented the diamond source warranty protocol, which requires vendors to provide a warranty, and a qualified independent audit certificate, that loose polished diamonds were not obtained from zimbabwean, angolan or congolese mines. as part of its diamond source initiative, the company also requires its vendors to affirmatively state the region or country of origin of any polished diamonds sold to the company that are 0.18 carats and larger and individually registered. worldwide availability and price of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines, the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds and levels of industry liquidity. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of both rough and polished diamonds. prices for rough diamonds do not necessarily reflect current demand for polished diamonds. in addition, the supply and prices of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the diamond trading company ("dtc"), an affiliate of the de beers group. although the dtc's historical ability to control worldwide production has diminished due to its lower share of worldwide production and changing policies in diamond-producing countries, the dtc continues to supply a meaningful portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds and continues to impact diamond supply through its marketing and advertising initiatives. a significant portion of the diamonds that the company purchased in 2019 had their source with the dtc. sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect the company and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising spending of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. the company purchases conflict-free rough and polished diamonds, in highly graded color and clarity ranges. management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in these quality ranges in the short term but believes that, unless new mines are developed, rising demand will eventually create such a shortage and lead to higher prices. synthetic and treated diamonds. synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) are produced in growing quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to generate synthetic and/or treated diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of these diamonds, such diamonds are becoming a larger factor in the market. should synthetic and/or treated diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. the company does not produce and does not intend to purchase or sell such diamonds. purchases of precious metals and other polished gemstones . precious metals and other polished gemstones used in making jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources for use in the company's internal manufacturing operations and/or for use by third-party manufacturers contracted to supply tiffany merchandise. the silver, gold and platinum sourced directly by the company principally come from two sources: (i) in-ground, large-scale deposits of metals, primarily in the u.s., that meet the company's standards for responsible mining and (ii) metals from recycled sources. while the company may supply precious metals to a manufacturer, it cannot determine, in all circumstances, whether the finished goods provided by such manufacturer were actually produced with company-supplied precious metals. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with precious metals and other polished gemstone vendors. purchases are generally made at prevailing market prices, which have, with respect to precious metals, experienced substantial volatility in recent years. these relationships may be terminated at any time by tiffany &amp; co. k- 11 table of contents either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. the company believes that there are numerous alternative sources for other polished gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 50 manufacturers. however, the company does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. the company does enter into merchandise vendor agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. the merchandise vendor agreements establish non-price terms by which the company may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to the company. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities of merchandise with its vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to termination. the company actively seeks alternative sources for its best-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, the company may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . the company sells tiffany &amp; co. brand watches, which are designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the company's subsidiaries. the company has relationships with approximately 30 component and subassembly vendors to manufacture watches. the terms of the company's contractual relationships with these vendors are substantially similar to those described under "finished jewelry" above. sales of these tiffany &amp; co. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017. competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. the company encounters significant competition in all product categories. some competitors specialize in just one area in which the company is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to the company and compete on the basis of that reputation. certain other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. the company competes on the basis of the brand's reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. the company's retail prices for diamond jewelry reflect the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the beauty of the diamonds, but which also increase the company's cost. the company competes in this market by emphasizing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2020 , the company employed an aggregate of approximately 14,100 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,500 are employed in the united states. available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. copies of these reports and statements may be obtained, free of charge, on the company's website at https://investor.tiffany.com/financial-information. tiffany &amp; co. k- 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the company and/or the markets in which it operates. the following "risk factors" are specific to the company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the company will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management. the risk factors described below are not the only ones faced by the company and additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may impair the company's business operations. management's strategies are subject to the risks described herein and may be subject to other risks that have not yet been identified. (i) the announcement and pendency of the proposed merger may adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. uncertainty about the effect of the proposed merger on the company's employees, customers, and other parties may have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations regardless of whether the proposed merger is completed. these risks to the company's business include, among others, the following, all of which may be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the proposed merger: (i) the impairment of the company's ability to attract, retain, and motivate its employees; (ii) the diversion of significant management time and attention from ongoing business operations towards the completion of the proposed merger; (iii) difficulties maintaining relationships with customers, suppliers and other business partners; (iv) delays or deferments of certain business decisions by the company's customers, suppliers and other business partners; (v) the inability to pursue alternative business opportunities or make appropriate changes to the company's business because the merger agreement requires the company to, subject to certain exceptions, including as required by a governmental entity or by applicable law (in each case as defined in the merger agreement), conduct its business in the ordinary course of business and to not engage in certain kinds of transactions prior to the completion of the proposed merger without the prior written consent of parent (such consent not to be unreasonably conditioned, withheld or delayed), even if such actions could prove beneficial; (vi) litigation relating to the proposed merger and the costs related thereto; and (vii) the incurrence of significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed merger. (ii) failure to consummate the proposed merger within the expected time frame or at all may have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that the proposed merger will be consummated. the consummation of the proposed merger is subject to various conditions, including, among others, customary conditions relating to (i) the receipt of certain non-u.s. regulatory approvals; (ii) clearance by the cfius; (iii) the absence of a law or order in effect that enjoins, prevents or otherwise prohibits the consummation of the proposed merger or any other transactions contemplated under the merger agreement issued by a governmental entity; (iv) the absence of any legal proceeding seeking to enjoin, prevent or otherwise prohibit the consummation of the proposed merger or any other transactions contemplated under the merger agreement instituted by a governmental entity of competent jurisdiction; and (v) the absence of a material adverse effect (as defined in the merger agreement). there can be no assurance that these and other conditions to closing will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. in connection with the proposed merger, the registrant and its directors were named as defendants in four lawsuits brought by purported stockholders challenging the proposed merger and seeking various forms of injunctive relief and money damages. while the plaintiffs of these lawsuits have voluntarily dismissed their claims, the registrant may be subject to additional future litigation challenging the proposed merger. if any future plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the consummation of the proposed merger, then such injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all, either of which could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the merger agreement also provides that the merger agreement may be terminated by the company or parent under certain circumstances, and in certain specified circumstances upon termination of the merger agreement, the company will be required to pay parent a termination fee of $575.0 million. depending on the circumstances requiring the company to make this payment, doing so may materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. tiffany &amp; co. k- 13 table of contents there can be no assurance that an adequate remedy will be available to the company in the event of a breach of the merger agreement by parent or its affiliates or that the company will, wholly or partially, recover for any damages incurred by it in connection with the proposed merger. a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of the company among its customers or in the investment community or business community generally. further, any disruptions to the company's business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the proposed merger, including any adverse changes in the company's relationships with its customers, partners, suppliers and employees, may continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. in addition, if the proposed merger is not completed, and there are no other parties willing and able to acquire the company at a price of $135.00 per share or higher, on terms acceptable to the company, the share price of the company's common stock will likely decline to the extent that the current market price of the company's common stock reflects an assumption that the proposed merger will be completed. also, the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses, and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed merger, for which it will have received little or no benefit if the proposed merger is not completed. many of these fees and costs will be payable by the company if the proposed merger is not completed and may relate to activities that the company would not have undertaken other than to complete the proposed merger. (iii) the recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus has had a significant effect on the company's sales results to date in fiscal 2020, and could have a significant negative impact on the company's business, revenues, financial condition and results of operations in that year. an outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus, covid-19, was identified in wuhan, china in december 2019 and was subsequently recognized as a pandemic by the world health organization on march 11, 2020. this coronavirus outbreak has severely restricted the level of economic activity around the world. in response to this coronavirus outbreak, the governments of many countries, states, cities and other geographic regions have taken preventative or protective actions, such as imposing restrictions on travel and business operations and advising or requiring individuals to limit or forego their time outside of their homes. temporary closures of businesses have been ordered and numerous other businesses have temporarily closed voluntarily. further, individuals' ability to travel has been curtailed through mandated travel restrictions and may be further limited through additional voluntary or mandated closures of travel-related businesses. these actions have expanded significantly in the past several weeks and are expected to continue to expand in scope, type and impact. for example, on march 15, 2020, following an unscheduled meeting of the federal open market committee, the united states federal reserve reduced the target range for the federal funds rate to 0 to 0.25 percent, down from a range of 1 to 1.25 percent, in connection with the coronavirus's impact on the united states' economy. in recent weeks, this coronavirus outbreak and the related preventative and protective actions have impacted the company's business globally, including through store closures, reductions in operating hours and/or decreased store traffic. for example, from january 24 through march 19, 2020, management estimates that this coronavirus outbreak contributed to the loss of approximately 30 out of 54 retail trading days (accounting for the effect of individual store closures as well as reductions in store operating hours) across all of the company's stores in the chinese mainland. in addition, as of march 19, 2020, the company has temporarily closed all of its stores in the united states and canada, and has temporarily closed nearly all of its stores across europe and the united kingdom. the company has also experienced significantly reduced customer traffic from january 24 through march 19 in its stores that have been open during such period, which management believes has resulted in part from a reduction in tourism as well as restrictions on travel and limitations affecting individuals' ability to spend time in public areas. all of the foregoing developments have had a significant effect on the company's sales results to date in its fiscal year ending january 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2020") and are expected to continue to have a significant effect on its financial results. these developments and effects are expected to continue and may also significantly affect the company's business in other geographic areas where this coronavirus has spread and may continue to spread. the company's business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending. the company cannot predict the degree to, or the time period over, which its business will be affected by this coronavirus outbreak. for example, this coronavirus outbreak could continue to impede global economic activity, leading to a further decline in discretionary spending by local customers and tourists, and resulting in additional significant effects on the company's business, revenues, financial condition and results of operations. there are numerous uncertainties associated with this coronavirus outbreak, including the number of individuals who will become infected, whether a vaccine or cure that mitigates the effect of the virus will be synthesized, and, if so, when such vaccine or cure will be ready to be used, the extent of the protective and preventative measures that have been put in place by both governmental entities and other businesses and those that may be put in place in the future, tiffany &amp; co. k- 14 table of contents whether the virus's impact will be seasonal and numerous other uncertainties. the company intends to continue to execute on its strategic plans and operational initiatives during the coronavirus outbreak. however, the aforementioned uncertainties may result in delays or modifications to these plans and initiatives. this coronavirus outbreak has also impacted, and may continue to impact, the company's office locations, manufacturing and servicing facilities and distribution centers, as well as those of its third party vendors, including through the effects of facility closures, reductions in operating hours, staggered shifts and other social distancing efforts, labor shortages, decreased productivity and unavailability of raw materials or components. for example, the company has experienced reduced capacity in its manufacturing and servicing facilities in new york as a result of state-imposed temporary occupancy restrictions, as well as a government-mandated temporary closure of its diamond processing operation in mauritius. this coronavirus outbreak may also impact distribution and logistics providers' ability to operate or increase their operating costs. these supply chain effects may negatively affect the company's ability to meet consumer demand and may increase the company's costs of production and distribution. for the reasons set forth above and other reasons that may come to light if this coronavirus outbreak and any associated protective or preventative measures expand, as of the date hereof, the company cannot reasonably estimate the impact to the company's business, revenues, financial condition or results of operations; however, such impact could be significantly negative. (iv) challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; domestic and international political uncertainties and/or developments; changes in the market value of equity securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the company's sales and earnings. certain competitors may react to such conditions by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the company's sales, especially given the company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in greater china and anticipates continuing to do so. any slowdown in the chinese economy could have a negative impact on the sales and profitability of stores in greater china as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the company to forecast operating results. the company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (v) sales may decline or remain flat in the company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have an adverse effect on annual earnings and inventories in the short term. (vi) the company conducts operations globally, the risks of which could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. the company operates globally and generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the united states. it also has both u.s. and foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain u.s. and foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. as a result, the company is subject to the risks of doing business globally, including: the laws, regulations and policies of governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; tiffany &amp; co. k- 15 table of contents uncertainties from changes in u.s. or foreign taxation policies; compliance by third party vendors and suppliers with the company's sourcing and quality standards, codes of conduct, or contractual requirements as well as applicable laws and regulations; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements; political or economic instability in foreign countries, including the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies, such as the u.k.'s recent exit from the european union ("e.u."), as discussed below; political or civil unrest, including protests and other civil disruption, such as the ongoing business disruption in hong kong; acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation as a result of, for example, changes in government policies of foreign countries in response to actions taken by the u.s. government; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges or other barriers to trade, including as a result of changes in diplomatic and trade relations or agreements with other countries; challenges inherent in oversight of foreign operations, systems and controls; potential negative consequences from foreign governments' currency management practices; uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; and inventory risk exposures. changes in these regulatory, political, economic, or monetary policies and other factors could require the company to significantly modify its current business practices and may adversely affect its future financial results. for example, the company could be adversely impacted by u.s. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including trade policies and tariffs affecting china and, the e.u., as well as retaliatory tariffs by such countries. such tariffs and, if enacted, any further legislation or actions taken by the u.s. government that restrict trade, such as additional tariffs or trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments in europe, asia and elsewhere, could have a negative effect on the company's ability to sell products in those markets. additionally, in june 2016, voters in the u.k. approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the e.u., commonly referred to as "brexit." on january 31, 2020, the u.k. officially terminated its membership in the e.u. pursuant to the terms of a withdrawal agreement concluded between the u.k. and e.u. among other terms, the withdrawal agreement provides for a transition period through december 31, 2020, during which the u.k.'s existing trade relationship with the e.u. will remain in place and the u.k. will continue to follow the e.u.'s rules. negotiations during the transition period to determine the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u., including the terms of a future trade deal, are expected to be complex and it is not clear at this time what, if any, agreements will be reached by the current december 31, 2020 transition period deadline. changes related to brexit could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the u.k. and the e.u., and result in potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the u.k. and the e.u. the company may incur additional costs and expenses as it adapts to these potentially divergent regulatory frameworks, and may face additional complexity with regard to immigration and travel rights for its employees located in the u.k. and the e.u. there may also be similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which the company does business. the u.k.'s withdrawal from the e.u. and the uncertainty surrounding the terms of this withdrawal, as well as the impact of any similar circumstances that may arise elsewhere in europe, could increase the company's costs and adversely impact consumer and investor confidence. while these factors, and the effect thereof, are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business. tiffany &amp; co. k- 16 table of contents (vii) revisions to the u.s. tax code, including changes in the guidance related to, or interpretation and application of, such revisions could materially affect the company's tax obligations, provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the 2017 u.s. tax cuts and jobs act (the "2017 tax act"), which significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how the u.s. imposes income tax on u.s. taxpayers. in particular, these changes impact the u.s. taxation of earnings in the jurisdictions in which the company operates, the measurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities and the tax impact in the event the company were to repatriate the earnings of its non-u.s. subsidiaries to the u.s. the provisions of the 2017 tax act may be subject to further interpretation by the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service, which have broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how the company will apply such provisions. further regulatory or accounting guidance regarding the 2017 tax act could materially affect the company's future financial results. (viii) a strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would negatively affect the company's sales and profitability. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 markets outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including, among others, the japanese yen, euro, british pound and chinese yuan. in 2019 , sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented a substantial portion of the company's net sales and earnings from operations. a strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would require the company to raise its retail prices in various locations outside of the u.s. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, or reduce its profit margins. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a strengthening of the u.s. dollar would result in reduced sales and profitability. in addition, a weakening of any foreign currency relative to other currencies may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists in the various regions where the company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its net sales and profitability. the reported results of operations of the company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a discussion of such impacts. (ix) political activities, regional instability and/or conflict, public health crises or similar events could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. regional and global conflicts or crises, such as military actions, terrorist activities and natural disasters, geopolitical or regulatory developments (and any related protests), public health crises and other similar events and conditions in the various regions and cities where the company operates retail stores may negatively affect spending by both foreign tourists and local consumers. the company's retail stores, many of which are located in major metropolitan areas globally, may in fact have close proximity to the locations of such events for example, the company's operations in hong kong have experienced significant business disruptions since the beginning of the protests in that market in 2019. the occurrence of the types of events or conditions described above, or the related effect of security measures implemented to address the possibility of such occurrences, could affect consumer traffic and/or spending in one or more of the company's locations, which could adversely affect the company's sales and earnings. (x) changes in the company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the company's profitability. the company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the company's geographic regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. the increasing availability of, and ease of access to, retail price information across markets, primarily through the internet, may affect consumers' decisions regarding in which geographies to shop. if the company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability. tiffany &amp; co. k- 17 table of contents (xi) metrics the company may report that are based on customer data it collects are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and inaccuracies in that data or the resulting metrics could lead to decisions that adversely impact the company's business. the company regularly reviews customer sales and similar data to evaluate retail sales trends, measure its performance and make strategic decisions. the company reviews its sales data attributed to local customers, which the company defines as sales to customers who identify themselves as being residents of the same country as the retail store in which the applicable sale was completed, and sales attributed to foreign tourists, which the company defines as sales to customers who identify themselves as being residents of a different country than the country of the retail store in which the applicable sale was completed, to evaluate growth and other sales trends within the company's global customer base. these metrics are calculated using internal company data that reflects residency information self-reported by its customers at the time of sale, or, for customers who do not self-report, that is based on certain pre-established default assumptions. while the company believes this to be a reasonable method for collecting the applicable data, there are inherent challenges in collecting such data and measuring these aspects of its sales performance across its global customer population. for example, the default assumptions referred to above could result in a significant understatement or overstatement of sales attributed to local customers or foreign tourists. in addition, the collected data has not been validated by an independent third party, and the resulting metrics may differ from similar estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of other retailers. errors or inaccuracies in the company's data or metrics could result in incomplete or inaccurate internal analyses, which may compromise the validity and reliability of conclusions the company draws from such analyses and may further result in ineffective decision-making. for instance, such inaccuracies could result in an overstatement of sales to foreign tourists, which could lead the company to allocate sales and marketing resources in a manner that would not result in optimal retail sales performance. if these metrics or the underlying data are used to inform management's strategies or initiatives, but reflect material errors or inaccuracies, the company's business may be negatively affected. (xii) increases in costs of diamonds, other gemstones and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the company's jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, other gemstones and/or precious metals. a significant increase in the costs or change in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect the company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of precious metals, high-quality rough and polished diamonds (within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand) and/or other gemstones could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. additionally, should synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and/or treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) be offered in significant quantities and gain consumer acceptance, the supply of, demand for and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. (xiii) the company may be unable to secure and retain sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations, and maintaining the company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires significant investment in store construction, maintenance and periodic renovation. the company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base, including potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores, as well as the renovation and relocation of its existing stores. maintaining the company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires that stores be constructed and maintained in a manner consistent with that brand image. this requires significant capital investment, including for periodic renovations of existing stores. renovations of existing stores may also result in temporary disruptions to an individual store's business. if the company cannot secure and retain store locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, or if its investments to construct and/or renovate existing stores do not generate sufficient incremental sales and/or profitability or significantly disrupt sales and/or profitability during renovations, the company's sales and/or earnings performance could be jeopardized. for example, in 2018, the company announced its plans to undertake a complete renovation of the new york flagship store. the new york flagship store closed in january 2020, at which time the company began its complete renovation and temporarily moved its operations to the "tiffany flagship next door" at 6 east 57th street. this tiffany &amp; co. k- 18 table of contents renovation is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2021. the full renovation project will require significant capital investment and may result in business and/or consumer traffic disruptions. significant delays or cost overruns are also possible during the construction period, which could significantly increase the cost of this renovation project and adversely impact the company's future financial results. there can be no assurance that the results of this renovation project will appeal to the company's customers or will increase the company's sales or profitability. (xiv) the value of the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement. the tiffany &amp; co. and tiffany trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the company's business, and the company takes appropriate action to protect them. the company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on related goods or services and the company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. notwithstanding the general success of the company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in most markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise or merchandise that infringes the company's trademarks could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining the company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the tiffany &amp; co. brand could result in lost sales and earnings. (xv) the company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand's association with quality and luxury is integral to the success of the company's business. the company's expansion plans for retail, e-commerce and other direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this could result in lower sales and earnings. in addition, adverse publicity regarding tiffany &amp; co. and its products, as well as adverse publicity in respect of, or resulting from, the company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industries more generally, could adversely affect the company's business. for example, the company sources from third-party vendors certain products that, from time to time, may not, or may contain raw materials that do not, meet the company's sourcing and quality standards as well as applicable requirements and regulations. in such instances, although the company may have recourse against such third-party vendors, the company may self-report to the relevant regulatory agencies, recall affected products and/or pay potential fines. any of the above could harm the tiffany &amp; co. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the tiffany &amp; co. brand, its products and the industry, and/or negatively affect the company's results of operations. the considerable expansion in the use of social media in recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. (xvi) any material disruption of, or a failure to successfully implement or make changes to, information systems could negatively impact the company's business. the company is increasingly dependent on its information systems to operate its business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting its results. given the complexity of the company's global business, it is critical that the company maintain the uninterrupted operation of its information systems. despite the company's preventative efforts, its information systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruption or shutdown due to power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, systems failures, security breaches or natural tiffany &amp; co. k- 19 table of contents disasters. damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems may require a significant investment to repair or replace them, and the company could suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. the company is in the process of executing its multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. these system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. while the company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will be implemented without delays, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. any damage, disruption or shutdown of the company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, such as those referenced above, could have a direct material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, could undermine the company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational initiatives, and could also affect the company's reputation, its ability to compete effectively, its relationship with customers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand, which could result in reduced sales and profitability. (xvii) new and existing data privacy laws and/or a significant data security breach of the company's information systems could increase the company's operational costs, subject the company to claims and otherwise adversely affect its business. the protection of customer, employee and company information is important to the company, and its customers and employees expect that their personal data will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and data privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in respect of personal data use and processing, including significant penalties for non-compliance, in the various jurisdictions in which the company does business. for example, the e.u. general data protection regulation that came into force in 2018, as well as the california consumer privacy act that came into force on january 1, 2020, have caused, and will continue to cause, the company to incur additional compliance costs related thereto. although the company has developed and implemented systems, policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to protect personal data and company information, prevent data loss and other security breaches, and otherwise identify, assess and analyze cybersecurity risks, such measures cannot provide absolute security. for example, the company faces a complex and evolving threat landscape in which cybercriminals, nation-states and "hacktivists" employ a complex array of techniques designed to access personal data and other information, including the use of stolen access credentials, malware, ransomware, phishing, structured query language ("sql") injection attacks and distributed denial-of-service attacks, which may penetrate the company's systems despite its extensive and evolving protective information security measures. further, the company relies on its software and hardware providers to issue timely patches for known vulnerabilities; however, the failure of software and hardware companies to release or to timely release effective patching and the company's reliance on patches or inability to patch software and hardware vulnerabilities, could expose it to increased risk of attack, data loss and data breach. the company has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, attempts from cybercriminals and other third parties to gain unauthorized access to its information technology and other information systems. although these attempts have not had a material impact on the company to date, in the future the company could experience attacks that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, the company's implementation of new information technology or information systems and/or increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee personal data, could expose the company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. the company's efforts to protect personal data and company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at its third-party vendors. while the company's contractual arrangements with such third-party vendors provide for the protection of personal data and company information, the company cannot control these vendors or their systems and cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future. a significant violation of applicable privacy laws or the occurrence of a cybersecurity incident resulting in breach of personal data or company information could result in the temporary suspension of some or all of the company's operating and/or information systems, damage the company's reputation, its relationships with customers, vendors tiffany &amp; co. k- 20 table of contents and service providers and the tiffany &amp; co. brand and could result in lost data, lost sales, sizable fines, increased insurance premiums, substantial breach-notification and other remediation costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. the company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address personal data processing risks and data security threats or to investigate or address potential or actual data security or privacy breaches. (xviii) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations. the company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. although the company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. (xix) the loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the company's internal manufacturing facilities could adversely affect its business and operations. the company's internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the jewelry sold by the company. any prolonged disruption to their operations would require the company to seek alternate sources of production and could have a negative effect on inventory availability and sales until such sources are established. (xx) if the company is unable to effectively anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, or introduce new products or programs that appeal to new or existing customers, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected. the company's continued success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences for jewelry and other luxury goods, attitudes towards the global jewelry industry as a whole, as well as the manner and locations in which consumers purchase such goods. the company recognizes that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, which is compounded by the expanding use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared. the company's product development strategy is to introduce new design collections, primarily jewelry, and/or expand certain existing collections annually. if the company is unable to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, including the development of an engaging omnichannel experience for its customers, the company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, approximately 75% of the company's stores are located within luxury department stores and shopping malls and benefit from the ability of those locations to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in department store and/or mall traffic may negatively impact the company's ability to maintain or increase its sales in existing stores, as well as its ability to open new stores. (xxi) environmental and climate changes could affect the company's business. the company operates retail stores in more than 20 markets and has both domestic and foreign manufacturing operations that are susceptible to the risks associated with climate change. such risks include those related to the physical impacts of climate change, such as more frequent and severe weather events and/or long term shifts in climate patterns, and risks related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy, such as reputational, market and/or regulatory risks. climate change and climate events could result in social, cultural and economic disruptions in these areas, including supply chain disruptions, the disruption of local infrastructure and transportation systems that could limit the ability of the company's employees and/or its customers to access the company's stores or manufacturing locations, damage to such stores or locations or reductions in material availability and quality. these events could also compound adverse economic conditions and impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending. despite the fact that the company is pursuing numerous initiatives to reduce its environmental footprint, including efforts related to energy efficiency, renewable energy use and carbon offsets, there remains the risk that insufficient global cooperation could lead to increased negative impacts from climate change. while the company has an ongoing tiffany &amp; co. k- 21 table of contents program for reviewing its vulnerability to the impacts of severe weather events and other risks associated with climate change, these events could nonetheless negatively affect the company's business and operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk k- 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to offset a portion of the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the maximum term of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2020 is 12 months. at january 31, 2020 and 2019 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding foreign exchange forwards was a net asset of $1.4 million and a net liability of $2.1 million , respectively. the company entered into cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk associated with japanese yen-denominated and euro-denominated intercompany loans. these cross-currency swaps are designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. as of january 31, 2020 , the notional amounts of cross-currency swaps accounted for as cash flow hedges and the respective maturity dates were as follows: cross-currency swap notional amount effective date maturity date (in millions) (in millions) july 2016 october 2024 10,620.0 $ 100.0 march 2017 april 2027 11,000.0 96.1 may 2017 april 2027 5,634.5 50.0 august 2019 august 2026 21.1 23.6 at january 31, 2020 and 2019 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding cross-currency swaps was a net asset of $1.0 million and a net liability of $19.9 million , respectively. at january 31, 2020 , for all of the contracts and swaps noted above, a 10% decrease in the hedged foreign currency exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $91.3 million . precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations in order to manage the effect of volatility in precious metal prices. the company may use a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ("precious metal collars") or forward contracts. if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar would expire at no cost to the company. the maximum term of the company's outstanding precious metal forward contracts and collars as of january 31, 2020 is 18 months. at january 31, 2020 and 2019 , the aggregate fair value of the company's outstanding precious metal derivative instruments was a net asset of $12.8 million and $2.5 million , respectively. at january 31, 2020 , a 10% decrease in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $4.1 million . tiffany &amp; co. k- 46 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk incorporated by reference from registrant's annual report to stockholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2003, page 31.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk incorporated by reference from registrant annual report to stockholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2004, pages 31-32.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk incorporated by reference from registrant's annual report to stockholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2005, page 31. - - page 28 - tiffany & co. report on form 10-k fy 2004risk factors. as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the registrant success in achieving its objectives and expectations is partially dependent upon economic conditions, competitive developments and consumer attitudes, including changes in consumer preferences for certain jewelry styles and materials. however, certain assumptions are specific to the registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. the following assumptions, among others, are risk factors which could affect the likelihood that the registrant will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) that low or negative growth in the economy or in the financial markets, particularly in the u.s. and japan, will not occur and reduce discretionary spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be, luxuries ; (ii) that consumer spending does not decline substantially during the fourth quarter of any year; (iii) that unsettled regional and/or global conflicts or crises do not result in military, terrorist or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the registrant operates retail stores nor to the registrant continuing ability to operate in those regions; (iv) that sales in japan will not decline substantially; (v) that there will not be a substantial adverse change in the exchange relationship between the japanese yen and the u.s. dollar; (vi) that mitsukoshi and other department store operators in japan, in the face of declining or stagnant department store sales, will not close or consolidate stores which have tiffany co. retail locations; (vii) that mitsukoshi will continue as a leading department store operator in japan; (viii) that existing product supply arrangements, including license arrangements with third-party designers elsa peretti and paloma picasso, will continue; (ix) that the wholesale and retail market for high-quality rough and cut diamonds will provide continuity of supply and pricing within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand; (x) that the registrant diamond supply initiatives achieve their financial and strategic objectives; (xi) that the registrant gross margins in japan and for diamond products can be maintained in the face of increased competition from traditional and e-commerce retailers; (xii) that the registrant is able to pass on higher costs of raw materials to consumers through price increases; (xiii) that the sale of counterfeit products does not significantly undermine the value of the registrant trademarks and demand for the registrant products; (xiv) that new and existing stores and other sales locations can be leased, re-leased or otherwise obtained on suitable terms in desired markets and that construction can be completed on a timely basis; tiffany &amp; co. k - 18 (xv) that the registrant can achieve satisfactory results from any current and future businesses into which it enters that are operated under trademarks or tradenames other than tiffany co.; and (xvi) that the registrant expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management can continue to be executed without meaningfully diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk in japan, the company uses yen put options to minimize the effect of a weakening yen on u.s. dollar- denominated transactions. to a lesser extent, the company uses foreign-exchange forward contracts to protect against weakening local currencies. gains or losses on these instruments substantially offset losses or gains on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. management neither foresees nor expects significant changes in foreign currency exposure in the near future. the fair value of yen put options is sensitive to changes in yen exchange rates. if the market yen exchange rate at the time of an option expiration is stronger than the contracted exchange rate, the company allows the option to expire, limiting its loss to the cost of the option contract. the cost of outstanding option contracts at january 31, 2006 and 2005 was $2,828,000 and $2,791,000. at january 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair value of outstanding yen put options was $7,083,000 and $915,000. the fair value of the options was determined using quoted market prices for these instruments. at january 31, 2006 and 2005, a 10% appreciation in yen exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $1,083,000 and $79,000. at january 31, 2006 and 2005, a 10% depreciation in yen exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $15,644,000 and $5,742,000. at january 31, 2006 and 2005, the company had $7,481,000 and $6,854,000 of outstanding forward foreign-exchange contracts, which subsequently matured in february 2006 and february 2005. due to the short-term nature of the company forward foreign-exchange contracts, the book value of the underlying assets and liabilities approximates fair value. interest rate risk the company uses interest-rate swap contracts related to certain debt arrangements to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes. the interest-rate swap contracts effectively convert fixed-rate obligations to floating-rate instruments. additionally, since the fair value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt is sensitive to interest rate changes, the interest-rate swap contracts serve as a hedge to changes in the fair value of these debt instruments. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at january 31, 2006 and 2005 would have decreased the market value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt, including the effect of the interest-rate swap, by $11,484,000 and $15,459,000. a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates at january 31, 2006 and 2005 would have increased the market value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt, including the effect of the interest-rate swap, by $11,868,000 and $13,963,000. management does not expect significant changes in exposure to interest rate fluctuations, nor in market risk-management practices. tiffany co. k - 43risk factors. as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the registrant success in achieving its objectives and expectations is partially dependent upon economic conditions, competitive developments and consumer attitudes, including changes in consumer preferences for certain jewelry styles and materials. however, certain assumptions are specific to the registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. the following assumptions, among others, are risk factors which could affect the likelihood that the registrant will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) that low or negative growth in the economy or in the financial markets, particularly in the u.s. and japan, will not occur and reduce discretionary spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be, luxuries ; (ii) that consumer spending does not decline substantially during the fourth quarter of any year; (iii) that unsettled regional and/or global conflicts or crises do not result in military, terrorist or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the registrant operates retail stores nor to the registrant continuing ability to operate in those regions; (iv) that sales in japan will not decline substantially; (v) that there will not be a substantial adverse change in the exchange relationship between the japanese yen and the u.s. dollar; (vi) that mitsukoshi and other department store operators in japan, in the face of declining or stagnant department store sales, will not close or consolidate stores which have tiffany co. retail locations; (vii) that mitsukoshi will continue as a leading department store operator in japan; (viii) that existing product supply arrangements, including license arrangements with third-party designers elsa peretti and paloma picasso, will continue; (ix) that the wholesale and retail market for high-quality rough and cut diamonds will provide continuity of supply and pricing within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand; (x) that the registrant diamond supply initiatives achieve their financial and strategic objectives; (xi) that the registrant gross margins in japan and for diamond products can be maintained in the face of increased competition from traditional and e-commerce retailers; (xii) that the registrant is able to pass on higher costs of raw materials to consumers through price increases; (xiii) that the sale of counterfeit products does not significantly undermine the value of the registrant trademarks and demand for the registrant products; (xiv) that new and existing stores and other sales locations can be leased, re-leased or otherwise obtained on suitable terms in desired markets and that construction can be completed on a timely basis; t i f f a n y c o . k - 1 8 (xv) that the registrant can achieve satisfactory results from any current and future businesses into which it enters that are operated under trademarks or tradenames other than tiffany co.; and (xvi) that the registrant expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management can continue to be executed without meaningfully diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk in japan, the company uses yen put options to minimize the effect of a weakening yen on u.s. dollar- denominated transactions. to a lesser extent, the company uses foreign-exchange forward contracts to protect against changes in local currencies. gains or losses on these instruments substantially offset losses or gains on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. management neither foresees nor expects significant changes in foreign currency exposure in the near future. the fair value of yen put options is sensitive to changes in yen exchange rates. if the market yen exchange rate at the time of an option expiration is stronger than the contracted exchange rate, the company allows the option to expire, limiting its loss to the cost of the option contract. the cost of outstanding option contracts at january 31, 2007 and 2006 was $2,978,000 and $2,828,000. at january 31, 2007 and 2006, the fair value of outstanding yen put options was $6,056,000 and $7,083,000. the fair value of the options was determined using quoted market prices for these instruments. at january 31, 2007 and 2006, a 10% appreciation in yen exchange rates (i.e. a strengthing yen) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $563,000 and $1,083,000. at january 31, 2007 and 2006, a 10% depreciation in yen exchange rates (i.e. a weakening yen) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $16,784,000 and $15,644,000. at january 31, 2007 and 2006, the company had $5,885,000 and $7,481,000 of outstanding forward foreign-exchange contracts, which subsequently matured in february and march 2007 and february 2006, respectively. due to the short-term nature of the company forward foreign-exchange contracts, the book value of the underlying assets and liabilities approximates fair value. interest rate risk the company uses interest-rate swap contracts related to certain debt arrangements to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes. the interest-rate swap contracts effectively convert fixed-rate obligations to floating-rate instruments. additionally, since the fair value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt is sensitive to interest rate changes, the interest-rate swap contracts serve as a hedge to changes in the fair value of these debt instruments. a 100 basis-point increase in interest rates at january 31, 2007 and 2006 would have decreased the market value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt, including the effect of the interest-rate swap, by $8,652,000 and $11,484,000. a 100 basis-point decrease in interest rates at january 31, 2007 and 2006 would have increased the market value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt, including the effect of the interest-rate swap, by $9,006,000 and $11,868,000. management does not expect significant changes in exposure to interest rate fluctuations, nor in market risk-management practices. t i f f a n y c o . k - 4 3risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, registrant success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. the following risk factors are specific to registrant; these risk factors affect the likelihood that registrant will achieve the financial objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) risk: that a decline in consumer confidence will adversely affect registrant sales. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, registrant sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which will negatively affect registrant earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. (ii) risk: that sales will decline or remain flat in registrant fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. registrant business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. poor sales results during registrant fourth quarter will have a material adverse effect on registrant sales and profits. (iii) risk: that regional instability and conflict will disrupt tourist travel. unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises which result in military, terrorist or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the registrant operates retail stores could adversely affect the registrant sales and profits. (iv) risk: that the japanese yen will weaken against the u.s. dollar and require registrant to raise prices or shrink profit margins in japan. registrant sales in japan represented approximately 17% of registrant net sales in fiscal 2007. a substantial weakening of the japanese yen against the u.s. dollar would require registrant to raise its retail prices in japan or reduce its profit margins. japanese consumers may not accept significant price increases on registrant goods; thus there is a risk that a substantial weakening of the yen will result in reduced sales or profit margins. (v) risk: that registrant will be unable to continue to offer merchandise designed by elsa peretti or paloma picasso. registrant long-standing right to sell the jewelry designs of elsa peretti and paloma picasso and use their trademarks is responsible for a substantial portion of registrant revenues. merchandise designed by elsa peretti and by paloma picasso accounted for 11% and 3% of fiscal 2007 net sales, respectively. tiffany has exclusive license arrangements with elsa peretti and paloma picasso; these arrangements are subject to royalty payments as well as other requirements. each license may be tiffany co. k - 20 terminated by tiffany or the designer on six-months notice, even in the case where no default has occurred. also, no agreements have been made for the continued sale of the designs or use of the trademarks elsa peretti or paloma picasso following the death of either designer. loss of either license would materially adversely affect registrant business through lost sales and profits. (vi) risk: that increased commodity prices or reduced supply availability will adversely affect registrant ability to produce and sell products at historic profit margins. most of registrant jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. a significant change in the prices of these commodities could adversely affect registrant business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial decrease in the supply or an increase in the price of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could lead to decreased customer demand and lost sales and/or reduced gross profit margins. (vii) risk: that the value of the tiffany co. trademark will decline due to the sale by infringers of counterfeit merchandise. the tiffany co. trademark is an asset which is essential to the competitiveness and success of registrant business and registrant takes appropriate action to protect it. however, registrant enforcement actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeit of registrant merchandise or the infringement of the trademark. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany co. brand by undermining tiffany reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the brand would result in lost sales and profits. (viii) risk: that registrant will be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. registrant, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if registrant cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and profits will be jeopardized. (ix) risk: that registrant business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand. the tiffany co. brand association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of registrant business. registrant expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the brand appeal. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany co. brand through market over-saturation may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand and tarnishing its image. this will result in lower sales and profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and precious metal prices, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk in japan, the company uses yen put options to minimize the potential effect of a weakening yen on u.s. dollar-denominated transactions over a maximum term of 12 months. the company also uses foreign-exchange forward contracts to protect against changes in local currencies. gains or losses on these instruments substantially offset losses or gains on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. the fair value of yen put options is sensitive to changes in yen exchange rates. if the market yen exchange rate at the time of an option expiration is stronger than the contracted exchange rate, the company allows the option to expire, limiting its loss to the cost of the option contract. the cost of outstanding option contracts at january 31, 2008 and 2007 was $3,369,000 and $2,978,000. at january 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of outstanding yen put options was $863,000 and $6,056,000. the fair value of the options was determined using quoted market prices for these instruments. at january 31, 2008 and 2007, a 10% appreciation in yen exchange rates (i.e. a strengthening yen) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $230,000 and $563,000. at january 31, 2008 and 2007, a 10% depreciation in yen exchange rates (i.e. a weakening yen) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $7,786,000 and $16,784,000. at january 31, 2008 and 2007, the company had $7,311,000 and $5,885,000 of outstanding forward foreign-exchange contracts, which subsequently matured in february and march 2008 and february and march 2007, respectively. due to the short-term nature of the company forward foreign-exchange contracts, the book value of the underlying assets and liabilities approximates fair value. interest rate risk the company uses interest-rate swap contracts related to certain debt arrangements to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes. the interest-rate swap contracts effectively convert fixed-rate obligations to floating-rate instruments. the fair value of the interest-rate swap agreements is based on the amounts the company would expect to pay/receive to/from third parties to terminate the agreements. additionally, since the fair value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt is sensitive to interest rate changes, the interest-rate swap contracts serve as a hedge to changes in the fair value of these debt instruments. a 100 basis-point increase in interest rates at january 31, 2008 and 2007 would have decreased the market value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt, including the effect of the interest-rate swap, by $6,731,000 and $8,652,000. a 100 basis-point decrease in interest rates at january 31, 2008 and 2007 would have increased the market value of the company fixed-rate long-term debt, including the effect of the interest-rate swap, by $6,440,000 and $9,006,000. tiffany co. k - 47 precious metal price risk beginning in the first quarter of 2007, the company began using a combination of call and put option contracts in a net-zero cost collar arrangement ( collars ), as hedges of a portion of forecasted purchases of platinum and silver for internal manufacturing. if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the collar is within the call and put price, the collar would expire at no cost to the company. the maximum term over which the company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions is 12 months. the fair value of the outstanding collars at january 31, 2008 was $6,435,000. the fair value was determined using quoted market prices for these instruments. at january 31, 2008, a 10% appreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $11,000,000. at january 31, 2008, a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $2,954,000. management neither foresees nor expects significant changes in the company exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies, interest rates or precious metal prices, nor in its risk-management practices. tiffany co. k - 48risk factors, that the registrant believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. although the registrant believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements which speak only as of the date this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission. the registrant undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information included in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in expectations or otherwise. tiffany co. k - 2 part i item 1. business. a) general history of business. the registrant (also referred to as tiffany co. or the company ) is the parent corporation of tiffany and company ( tiffany ). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant common stock in 1987. the registrant is a holding company and conducts all business through its subsidiary corporations. through those subsidiaries, the company sells fine jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. b) financial information about industry segments. effective with the first quarter of 2008, the company changed segment reporting to reflect operating results for the following regions: the americas, asia-pacific and europe. prior year results have been revised to reflect this change. the company has expanded its global reach and management has determined that it is more meaningful to assess performance separately for those three distinct regions. the registrant segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is reported in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note q. segment information. c) narrative description of business. as used in this report, the terms fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 refer to the fiscal years ended on january 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. distribution and marketing maintenance of the tiffany co. brand the tiffany co. brand (the brand ) is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the registrant. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see trademarks below) and is inherent in consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; classic product positioning; distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany co. blue box); and sophisticated style and romance. tiffany business plan includes many expenses and strategies to maintain the strength of the brand. stores must be staffed with knowledgeable professionals to provide excellent service. elegant store and online environments increase capital and maintenance costs. display practices require sufficient store footprints and lease budgets to enable tiffany to showcase fine jewelry in a retail setting consistent with the brand positioning. stores in the best high street and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure, but reinforce the brand luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands. by the same token, over-proliferation tiffany co. k - 3 of stores, or stores that are located in second-tier markets, can diminish the strength of the brand. the classic positioning of tiffany product line supports the brand, but limits the display space that can be afforded to fashion jewelry. tiffany packaging practices support consumer expectations with respect to the brand and are more expensive. some advertising is done primarily to reinforce the brand association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, while other advertising is primarily intended to increase demand for particular products. maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory and accept reduced overall gross margins; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range. all of the foregoing demand that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and profits and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, advertising or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if the tradeoff between sales and profit is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and will in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable distribution and marketing initiatives. reportable segments americas retail sales. consists of sales transacted in tiffany co. stores in the u.s. (76), mexico (6), canada (2) and brazil (2). internet and catalog sales. tiffany distributes a selection of its products in the u.s. and canada through its websites at www.tiffany.com and www.tiffany.ca . tiffany also distributes catalogs of selected merchandise to its proprietary list of customers in the u.s. and to mailing lists rented from third parties. selections catalogs are published four times per year, supplemented by other targeted catalogs. the following table sets forth certain data with respect to internet, mail and telephone order operations for the periods indicated: 2008 2007 2006 number of names on u.s. internet and catalog mailing lists at fiscal year-end (consists of u.s. customers who purchased by internet, mail or telephone prior to the applicable date): 3,854,000 3,593,000 3,188,000 total u.s. catalog mailings during fiscal year: 18,150,000 19,500,000 21,700,000 total u.s. internet, mail or telephone orders received during fiscal year: 667,000 771,000 744,000 business-to-business sales. business sales executives call on business clients, selling products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market, including trophies and items designed for the particular customer. most of such sales occur in the u.s. price allowances are given to business account holders for certain purchases. business customers have tiffany co. k - 4 typically made purchases for gift giving, employee service and achievement recognition awards, customer incentives and other purposes. products and services are marketed through a sales organization, through advertising in newspapers and business periodicals and through the publication of special catalogs. business account holders may make gift purchases through the company website at http://business.tiffany.com . wholesale distribution. selected tiffany co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in markets in the central/south american, caribbean and canadian regions. such sales represented less than 1% of the registrant net sales in fiscal 2008. asia-pacific retail sales. consists of sales transacted in tiffany co. locations in japan (57), china (8), korea (8), hong kong (7), taiwan (5), australia (4), singapore (3), macau (2) and malaysia (2). business with department stores in japan. in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, total net sales in japan of tiffany co. merchandise represented 19%, 17% and 19% of the registrant net sales. the registrant does business in japan through its wholly-owned subsidiary, tiffany co. japan, inc. ( tiffany-japan ). 79% of tiffany-japan net sales in fiscal 2008 were transacted in boutiques within japanese department stores. tiffany-japan also operates four freestanding stores outside the scope of its japanese department store operations. in 2008, mitsukoshi and isetan department stores merged to form the company isetan mitsukoshi holdings ltd. ( isetan mitsukoshi ), making it the largest department store group in japan. the establishment of isetan mitsukoshi realigned japan department store sector. it is now dominated by four department store groups: isetan mitsukoshi; j. front retailing co. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores); takashimaya; and millennium retailing co. (sogo and seibu department stores). at the end of fiscal 2008, tiffany-japan was operating tiffany co. boutiques in locations controlled by the major department store groups as follows: isetan mitsukoshi (18), j. front retailing co. (9), takashimaya (9), and millennium retailing co. (3). tiffany-japan was also operating 14 boutiques in stores controlled by other japanese companies. with 18 of 53 tiffany co. department store boutiques, isetan mitsukoshi is the single largest department store operator housing tiffany co. boutiques in japan. sales recorded in retail locations operated within isetan mitsukoshi accounted for 6%, 6% and 8% of the registrant net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. tiffany-japan and the department store operators have distinct responsibilities and risks in the operation of tiffany co. boutiques in japan. the department store operator: provides and maintains boutique facilities; assumes retail credit and certain other risks; and acts for tiffany-japan in the sale of merchandise. tiffany-japan: has merchandising, marketing and display responsibilities; tiffany co. k - 5 owns the merchandise; establishes retail prices; bears the risk of currency fluctuation; provides one or more brand managers in each boutique; manages inventory; controls and funds all advertising and publicity programs with respect to tiffany co. merchandise; and recognizes as revenues the retail price charged to the ultimate consumer. tiffany-japan provides retail staff and bears the risk of inventory loss in concession boutiques (47 locations) and the department store operator provides retail staff and bears the risk of inventory loss in standard boutiques (6 locations). in return for its services and use of its facilities, the department store operator retains a portion (the basic portion) of net retail sales made in tiffany co. boutiques. the basic portion varies depending on the type of boutique and the retail price of the merchandise involved, with the fees generally varying from store to store. the highest basic portion available to any department store is 23% and the lowest is 14%. in recent years, tiffany-japan has, with the agreement of the involved department store operators, closed underperforming boutiques and relocated the boutiques to other department store locations in order to improve sales growth and profitability. management expects to continue to evaluate boutique locations to assess their potential for growth and profitability. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany co. merchandise for purchase in japan and australia through its websites at www.tiffany.co.jp and www.tiffany.com/au . business-to-business sales. consists of products drawn from the retail product line and items specifically developed and sold to business customers. wholesale distribution. selected tiffany co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in asia-pacific markets, predominantly in the middle eastern region. such sales represented 1% of the registrant net sales in fiscal 2008. europe retail sales. consists of sales transacted in tiffany co. stores in the united kingdom (7), germany (5), italy (4), france (3), austria (1), switzerland (1), belgium (1), spain (1) and ireland (1). internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany co. merchandise for purchase in england, wales, northern ireland and scotland through its website at www.tiffany.com/uk . business-to-business sales. consists of products drawn from the retail product line and items specifically developed and sold to business customers. tiffany co. k - 6 wholesale distribution. selected tiffany co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale predominantly in russia. such sales represented less than 1% of the registrant net sales in fiscal 2008. other other sales are those made in all non-reportable segments of the registrant business. sales in other consist primarily of wholesale sales of diamonds. other also includes sales made by businesses operated under trademarks or trade names other than tiffany co., such as iridesse, and earnings received from a licensing agreement with luxottica group for the distribution of tiffany co. brand eyewear. expected earnings received from a licensing agreement with the swatch group ltd. (the swatch group ) for tiffany co. brand watches will be included in other when received. wholesale diamond sales. the company sells diamonds to third parties that are found to be unsuitable for tiffany needs. the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for further processing, but not all rough diamonds so purchased are suitable for tiffany needs. in addition, not all polished diamonds are suitable for tiffany jewelry. the company objective from such sales is to recoup its original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on those transactions. iridesse, inc. the company operates a retail subsidiary, under the name iridesse, inc. ( iridesse ), which engages exclusively in the design and retail sale of pearl jewelry in the u.s. at the end of fiscal 2008, there were 16 iridesse retail stores. in january 2009, management committed to a plan to close all iridesse stores after agreements are reached with landlords and inventory is sold. little switzerland, inc. in 2007, the company sold 100% of the stock of little switzerland, inc. ( little switzerland ) to an unaffiliated third party for net proceeds of $32,870,000, subject to a contractual post-closing balance sheet adjustment. little switzerland results have been reclassified to discontinued operations. the company agreed to distribute tiffany co. merchandise for resale in tiffany co. boutiques maintained in certain little switzerland stores post-closing. in 2007, the company recorded a $54,260,000 pre-tax charge due to the sale of little switzerland. expansion of operations management regularly evaluates potential markets for new tiffany co. stores with a view to the demographics of the area to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a significant number of locations remaining in the americas, asia-pacific and europe that meet the requirements of a tiffany co. location. in 2008, tiffany opened a 2,600 gross square foot store in the u.s. that offers a selected product assortment which excludes engagement and high-end jewelry. management anticipates that tiffany will open additional locations in this smaller format, while continuing to open full assortment stores as well. the selection allows the store to concentrate higher-margin products in a smaller space. management believes that this new format will be highly efficient and will give the company the opportunity to open stores in affluent, albeit smaller, u.s. cities and to better serve larger markets where the company already operates full assortment stores. tiffany co. k - 7 the following chart details the growth in worldwide tiffany co. retail locations operated by registrant subsidiary companies since fiscal 1993: americas asia-pacific canada, latin/ other end of south asia- fiscal: u.s. americas japan pacific europe total 1993 16 1 37 5 6 65 1994 18 1 37 7 6 69 1995 21 1 38 9 6 75 1996 23 1 39 12 6 81 1997 28 2 42 17 7 96 1998 34 2 44 17 7 104 1999 38 3 44 17 8 110 2000 42 4 44 21 8 119 2001 44 5 47 20 10 126 2002 47 5 48 20 11 131 2003 51 7 50 22 11 141 2004 55 7 53 24 12 151 2005 59 7 50 25 13 154 2006 64 9 52 28 14 167 2007 70 10 53 34 17 184 2008 76 10 57 39 24 206 the company plans to moderate the rate of store openings, net of store closings, from 22 in 2008 to 13 stores in 2009. management anticipates opening five stores in the americas, seven stores in asia-pacific and one store in europe in 2009. management also anticipates continued expansion of its internet, business-to-business and wholesale operations around the world. products the company principal product category is jewelry. it also sells timepieces, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances and personal accessories. tiffany offers an extensive selection of tiffany co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 87%, 85% and 85% of the registrant net sales were attributable to tiffany co. brand jewelry. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent name designers (see designer licenses below). in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, the remaining 13%, 15% and 15% of the registrant net sales were attributable to tiffany co. brand non-jewelry merchandise and sales from businesses operated under trademarks or trade names other than tiffany co. tiffany co. k - 8 sales by reportable segment of tiffany co. jewelry by category % to total % to total % to total % to total 2008 americas asia-pacific europe reportable category sales sales sales segment sales a 26% 30% 25% 27% b 15% 30% 16% 20% c 10% 12% 11% 11% d 34% 20% 40% 30% % to total % to total % to total % to total 2007 americas asia-pacific europe reportable category sales sales sales segment sales a 29% 30% 28% 29% b 14% 29% 14% 18% c 10% 12% 12% 11% d 32% 21% 37% 29% % to total % to total % to total % to total 2006 americas asia-pacific europe reportable category sales sales sales segment sales a 28% 29% 29% 28% b 13% 28% 16% 18% c 11% 11% 12% 11% d 32% 23% 33% 30% a) this category includes most gemstone jewelry and gemstone band rings, other than engagement jewelry. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 10% of pieces. most items in this category contain diamonds, other gemstones or both. the average price of merchandise sold in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in this category was approximately $3,300, $3,400 and $3,100 for total reportable segments. b) this category includes diamond rings and wedding bands marketed to brides and grooms. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 3% of pieces. most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds. the average price of merchandise sold in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in this category was approximately $3,000, $3,000 and $2,500 for total reportable segments. c) this category generally consists of non-gemstone, gold or platinum jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. the average price of merchandise sold in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in this category was approximately $700, $700 and $600 for total reportable segments. d) this category generally consists of non-gemstone, sterling silver jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. the average price of merchandise sold in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in this category was approximately $200 for total reportable segments in each year. tiffany co. k - 9 in addition to jewelry, the company sells tiffany co. brand merchandise in the following categories: timepieces and clocks; sterling silver merchandise, including flatware, hollowware (tea and coffee services, bowls, cups and trays), trophies, key holders, picture frames and desk accessories; stainless steel flatware; crystal, glassware, china and other tableware; custom engraved stationery; writing instruments; eyewear and fashion accessories. fragrance products are sold under the trademarks tiffany, pure tiffany and tiffany for men. tiffany also sells other brands of timepieces and tableware in its u.s. stores. none of these categories individually represents 10% or more of net sales. advertising and promotion the registrant regularly advertises, primarily in newspapers and magazines, and periodically conducts product promotional events. in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, the registrant spent approximately $189 million (6.6% of net sales), $174 million (5.9% of net sales) and $162 million (6.3% of net sales) on worldwide advertising, which includes costs for media, production, catalogs, promotional events and other related items. management currently anticipates a decline in advertising spending in 2009. public relations public relations (promotional) activity is a significant aspect of the registrant business. management believes that tiffany image is enhanced by a program of charity sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. donations are also made to the tiffany co. foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations with efforts concentrated in environmental conservation and support for the decorative arts. tiffany also engages in a program of retail promotions and media activities to maintain consumer awareness of the company and its products. each year, tiffany publishes its well-known blue book which showcases jewelry and other merchandise. the registrant considers these and other promotional efforts important in maintaining tiffany image. trademarks the designations tiffany and tiffany co. are the principal trademarks of tiffany, as well as serving as trade names. through its subsidiaries, the company has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany co., as well as the tiffany blue box and the color tiffany blue for a variety of product categories in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that its u.s. trademark rights in tiffany and tiffany co. are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties (often small companies) on unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany co. goods remain available in many markets and the cost of enforcement is expected to continue tiffany co. k - 10 to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers and on the internet. as internet counterfeiting continues to become increasingly prolific, tiffany has responded by engaging investigators and outside counsel to monitor the internet and take various actions, including litigating through the internet uniform dispute resolution policy, to stop infringing activity. in july 2004, tiffany initiated a civil proceeding against ebay, inc. in the federal district court for the southern district of new york, alleging direct and contributory trademark infringement, unfair competition, false advertising and trademark dilution. tiffany sought damages and injunctive relief stemming from ebay alleged assistance and contribution to the offering for sale, advertising and promotion, in the u.s., of counterfeit tiffany jewelry and any other jewelry or merchandise which bears the tiffany trademark and is dilutive or confusingly similar to the tiffany trademarks. in november 2007, the case was tried as a bench trial and the court found in favor of ebay. the company has appealed the decision in the second circuit and is awaiting a hearing date. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany co. name and mark for the company products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category in every country of the world; third parties have registered the name tiffany in the u.s. in the food services category, and in a number of foreign countries in respect of certain product categories (including, in a few countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of litigation. designer licenses tiffany has been the sole licensee for jewelry designed by elsa peretti, paloma picasso and frank gehry, respectively, since fiscal 1974, 1980 and 2005. ms. peretti and ms. picasso retain ownership of copyrights for their designs and of their trademarks and exercise approval rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of their designs. tiffany is required by contract to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of their respective products; each is paid a royalty by tiffany for jewelry and other items designed by them and sold under their respective names. written agreements exist between ms. peretti and tiffany and between ms. picasso and tiffany, but each may be terminated by either party following six months notice to the other party. no arrangements are currently in place to continue the sale of designs following the death or disability of either ms. peretti or ms. picasso. tiffany is the sole retail source for merchandise designed by ms. peretti worldwide; however, she has reserved by contract the right to appoint other distributors in markets outside the u.s., canada, japan, singapore, australia, italy, the u.k., switzerland and germany. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 11%, 11% and 12% of the company net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. merchandise designed by ms. picasso accounted for 3%, 3% and 4% of the company net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. the gehry collection was made available for retail sale in fiscal 2006. merchandise designed by mr. gehry accounted for 1% of the company net sales in fiscal 2008, and 2% in 2007 and 2006. the registrant operating results could be adversely affected were it to cease to be a licensee of these designers or should its degree of exclusivity in respect of their designs be diminished. tiffany co. k - 11 merchandise purchasing, manufacturing and raw materials the company manufacturing facilities produce approximately 55%-60% of tiffany merchandise sold. the balance, including almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third parties. tiffany produces jewelry and silver goods in rhode island and new york and silver hollowware in new jersey. other subsidiaries of the company process, cut and polish diamonds at facilities outside the u.s. it is not expected that tiffany will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors to be considered in its decision to outsource manufacturing include product quality, gross margin, access to or mastery of various jewelry-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity and the cost of capital investments. purchases of polished gemstones and precious metals. gemstones and precious metals used in making tiffany jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources. most purchases are from suppliers with which tiffany enjoys long-standing relationships. the company does not enter into long-term supply or requirements arrangements with its polished gemstone and precious metal vendors, but does enter into purchase orders for fixed quantities with nearly all of these vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by the company without penalty; such termination would not discharge the company obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders placed prior to the termination. products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for approximately 47%, 48% and 46% of tiffany net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. products containing one or more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 10%, 11% and 10% of net sales in each of those years. tiffany purchases polished diamonds principally from nine key vendors. were trade relations between tiffany and one or more of these vendors to be disrupted, the company sales could be adversely affected in the short term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. in the current economic environment of reduced retail and wholesale demand, the world available diamond supply appears to management to exceed demand, and wholesale prices for all polished diamonds have declined. the potential exists for continued wholesale price declines in polished diamonds in the short term. some, but not all, of tiffany suppliers are diamond trading company ( dtc ) sightholders (see the dtc below), and it is estimated that a significant portion of the diamonds that tiffany has purchased have had their source with the dtc. the company is a dtc sightholder for rough diamonds through its joint ventures (see below). except as noted above, tiffany believes that there are numerous alternative sources for gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. purchases of rough diamonds. the company has established diamond processing operations that purchase, sort, cut and/or polish rough diamonds for use by tiffany. the company now has such operations in belgium, south africa, botswana, namibia, china, mauritius and vietnam. operations in south africa, botswana and namibia are conducted through joint ventures with third parties. tiffany co. k - 12 the company has invested in the operations in south africa, botswana and namibia in order to increase its opportunity to buy rough conflict-free diamonds (see conflict diamonds below) and may invest in additional opportunities that will potentially lead to additional sources of such diamonds. however, management does not foresee a shortage of conflict-free diamonds in the short term. in fiscal 2008, approximately 40% of the polished diamonds acquired by tiffany for use in jewelry were produced from rough diamonds purchased by the company. the balance of tiffany needs for polished diamonds were purchased from third parties (see above). the company expects to increase its purchases of rough diamonds in the future. in conducting these activities, it is the company intention to supply tiffany needs for cut/polished diamonds to as great an extent as possible. in order to acquire rough diamonds, the company must purchase mixed assortments of rough diamonds. it is thus necessary to purchase some rough diamonds that cannot be cut to meet tiffany quality standards and that must be sold to third parties; such sales have been conducted through the other non-reportable segment. to make such sales, the company must charge a market price and is unable to earn any significant profit above its original cost. sales of rough diamonds in the other non-reportable segment have had and will continue to have the effect of reducing the company overall gross margins. the company has a diamond purchase agreement with harry winston diamond corporation (formerly known as aber diamond corporation) whereby the company has the obligation to purchase a minimum of $50,000,000 of rough diamonds, subject to availability and the company quality standards, per year for a 10-year period ending in 2013. the company has not entered into long-term supply arrangements with its other significant rough diamond vendors. the dtc. the supply and price of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the dtc, an affiliate of de beers s.a., the luxembourg-based holding company of the de beers group. although the role of the dtc has diminished, the dtc will continue to affect traditional channels of supply in the markets for rough and cut diamonds. the dtc continues to supply a significant portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds, notwithstanding that its historical ability to control worldwide production supplies has been significantly diminished due to changing policies in diamond-producing countries and revised contractual arrangements with other diamond mine operators. the dtc continues to exert influence on the demand for polished diamonds through advertising and marketing efforts throughout the world and through the requirements it imposes on those who purchase rough diamonds from the dtc ( sightholders ). worldwide availability of diamonds. the availability and price of diamonds to the dtc, tiffany and tiffany suppliers may be, to some extent, dependent on the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines and the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds. as a consequence of changes in the sightholder system and increased demand in the retail diamond trade, diamond prices increased significantly in the years leading up to 2008. during 2008, as global demand for rough diamonds waned, diamond prices began to decrease. sustained interruption in the supply of rough diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect tiffany and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising policies of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. tiffany co. k - 13 conflict diamonds. increasing media attention has been focused in recent years on the issue of conflict diamonds. conflict diamonds are extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have been made that diamond trading is used as a source of funds to further terrorist activities. concerned participants in the diamond trade, including tiffany and non-government organizations, such as the council for responsible jewellery practices, of which tiffany is a member, seek to exclude such diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation. it is expected that such efforts will not substantially affect the supply of diamonds. manufactured diamonds. manufactured diamonds have become available in small quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce manufactured diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of manufactured diamonds, it is possible that manufactured diamonds may become a factor in the market. should manufactured diamonds come into the market in significant quantities at prices significantly below those for natural diamonds of comparable quality, the price for natural diamonds may fall unless consumers are willing to pay a premium for natural diamonds. such a price decline could affect the price that tiffany is able to obtain for its products. also, a significant decline in the price of natural diamonds may affect the economics of diamond mining, causing some mining operations to become uneconomic; this, in turn, could lead to shortages in natural diamonds. finished jewelry. finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 80 manufacturers, most of which have long-standing relationships with tiffany. however, tiffany does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. tiffany does enter into written blanket purchase order agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by tiffany without penalty; such termination would not discharge tiffany obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders placed prior to termination. the blanket purchase order agreements establish non-price terms by which tiffany may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to tiffany. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. tiffany believes that there are alternative sources for most jewelry items; however, due to the craftsmanship involved in certain designs, tiffany would have difficulty finding readily available alternatives in the short term. watches. in 2007, the company entered into a 20-year license and distribution agreement with the swatch group ltd. for the manufacture and distribution of tiffany co. brand watches. under the agreement, the swatch group has incorporated a new watchmaking company in switzerland for the design, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and service of tiffany co. brand watches. the new company is authorized to use certain trademarks owned by the company and operate under the tiffany co. name. the distribution of tiffany co. watches will be made through the swatch group distribution network via swatch group affiliates, swatch group retail facilities and third-party distributors as well as through tiffany co. stores, all of which is expected to commence in 2009. watch sales by the company in fiscal 2008 constituted approximately 2% of net sales. competition tiffany co. encounters significant competition in all product lines. some competitors specialize in just one area in which tiffany is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to tiffany and compete on the basis of that reputation. other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through tiffany co. k - 14 advertised price promotion, which has recently increased due to challenging economic conditions and decreased consumer demand. tiffany competes on the basis of its reputation for high-quality products, brand recognition, customer service and distinctive value-priced merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly fierce. tiffany price for diamonds reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other quality factors which increase the beauty of tiffany diamonds, but which also increase tiffany cost. tiffany competes in this market by stressing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2009, the registrant subsidiary corporations employed an aggregate of approximately 9,000 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,600 are employed in the united states. approximately 40 of the total number of the registrant subsidiary employees in south africa are represented by unions and approximately 520 of the total number of registrant subsidiary employees in vietnam are represented by unions. none of registrant unionized employees are employed in the united states. the registrant believes that relations with its employees and these unions are good. subsequent to january 31, 2009, the total number of full-time and part-time persons employed by the registrant decreased by approximately 10% due to participation in a voluntary early retirement program announced in the third quarter of 2008 and by involuntary terminations. available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany co. and other companies that file materials with the sec electronically. you may also obtain copies of the company annual reports on form 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k, free of charge, on the company website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm . tiffany co. k - 15 item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the registrant success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. the following risk factors are specific to the registrant; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the registrant will achieve the financial objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) risk: that challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence continue or worsen over a prolonged period of time and adversely affect the registrant sales. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the registrant sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the registrant earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. many of the registrant competitors may continue to react to falling consumer confidence by reducing their retail prices; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the company sales. in addition, some observers believe that the short-term attractiveness of luxury goods may have waned in certain markets, thus reducing demand. this could adversely affect the registrant sales and margins. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the registrant to forecast operating results. the registrant forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) risk: that sales will decline or remain flat in the registrant fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the registrant business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the registrant fourth quarter will have a material adverse effect on the registrant sales and profits. (iii) risk: that regional instability and conflict will disrupt tourist travel. unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises which result in military, terrorist or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the registrant operates retail stores could adversely affect the registrant sales and profits. (iv) risk: that foreign currencies will weaken against the u.s. dollar and require the registrant to raise prices or shrink profit margins in locations outside of the u.s. tiffany co. k - 16 the registrant operates retail stores and boutiques in various countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the registrant sales in those countries represented 46% of its net sales, of which japan represented 19% of net sales, in fiscal 2008. a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar would require the registrant to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the registrant goods; thus there is a risk that a substantial weakening of foreign currencies will result in reduced sales or profit margins. (v) risk: that the registrant will be unable to continue to offer merchandise designed by elsa peretti or paloma picasso. the registrant long-standing right to sell the jewelry designs of elsa peretti and paloma picasso and use their trademarks is responsible for a substantial portion of the registrant revenues. merchandise designed by ms. peretti and by ms. picasso accounted for 11% and 3% of fiscal 2008 net sales. tiffany has exclusive license arrangements with ms. peretti and ms. picasso; these arrangements are subject to royalty payments as well as other requirements. each license may be terminated by tiffany or the designer on six months notice, even in the case where no default has occurred. also, no agreements have been made for the continued sale of the designs or use of the trademarks elsa peretti or paloma picasso following the death of either designer. loss of either license would materially adversely affect the registrant business through lost sales and profits. (vi) risk: that changes in prices of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability might adversely affect the registrant ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the registrant jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. a significant change in the prices of these commodities could adversely affect the registrant business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase in the price of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could lead to decreased customer demand and lost sales and/or reduced gross profit margins. conversely, a decrease in the prices of raw materials could have a disruptive effect, negatively or positively, on sales demand and short-term margins. acquiring diamonds for the engagement business has, at times, been difficult because of supply limitations; tiffany may not be able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors, clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. a substantial increase or decrease in the supply of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could lead to decreased customer demand and lost sales and/or reduced gross profit margins. if trade relationships between the registrant and one or more of its significant vendors were disrupted, the registrant sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. (vii) risk: that the value of the tiffany co. trademark will decline due to the sale of counterfeit merchandise by infringers. the tiffany co. trademark is an asset which is essential to the competitiveness and success of the registrant business and the registrant takes appropriate action to protect it. tiffany co. k - 17 tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, the registrant enforcement actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeit of the registrant merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany co. goods remain available in many markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers, as well as on the internet. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany co. brand by undermining tiffany reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the brand would result in lost sales and profits. (viii) risk: that the registrant will be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. the registrant, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if the registrant cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desirable luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and profits will be jeopardized. in japan, many of the retail locations are located in department stores. tiffany co. boutiques located in department stores in japan represented 79% of net sales in japan and 15% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2008. in recent years, the japanese department store industry has, in general, suffered declining sales and there is a risk that such financial difficulties will force further consolidations or store closings. should one or more japanese department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a tiffany co. boutique, the registrant sales and profits would be reduced while alternate premises were being obtained. the registrant commercial relationships with department stores in japan, and their abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to be substantial factors in the registrant continued success in japan. (ix) risk: that the registrant business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand. the tiffany co. brand association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of the registrant business. the registrant expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the brand appeal. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand and tarnishing its image. this would result in lower sales and profits. (x) risk: that the current volatile global economy may have a material adverse effect on the registrant liquidity and capital resources. u.s. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses, including the registrant, to obtain financing on acceptable terms. a prolonged downturn in the economy, extending further than those included in management projections, could have an effect on the registrant cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing, and could make it more difficult for the registrant to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. in addition, increased disruption in the markets could lead to the failure of financial institutions. if any of the banks participating in the registrant revolving credit facility were to declare bankruptcy, the registrant would no longer have access to those committed funds. tiffany co. k - 18 further deterioration in the stock market could continue to negatively impact the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and precious metal prices, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk the company uses yen put options to minimize the potential effect of a weakening japanese yen on u.s. dollar-denominated transactions over a maximum term of 12 months. the fair value of yen put options is sensitive to changes in yen exchange rates. if the market yen exchange rate at the time of an option expiration is stronger than the contracted exchange rate, the company allows the option to expire, limiting its loss to the cost of the option contract. the cost of outstanding option contracts at january 31, 2009 and 2008 was $3,320,000 and $3,369,000. at january 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of outstanding yen put options was $920,000 and $863,000. the fair value of the options was primarily determined using quoted market prices for these instruments. at january 31, 2009 and 2008, a 10% appreciation in yen exchange rates (i.e. a strengthening yen) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $473,000 and $230,000. at january 31, 2009 and 2008, a 10% depreciation in yen exchange rates (i.e. a weakening yen) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $4,622,000 and $7,786,000. the company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to protect against changes in local currencies. gains or losses on these forward contracts substantially offset losses or gains on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. the maximum term of the outstanding forward contracts as of january 31, 2009 was six months. the fair value was primarily determined using quoted market prices for these instruments. at january 31, 2009, the fair value of the company outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was $3,938,000. at january 31, 2009, a 10% appreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates (i.e. strengthening foreign currencies) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of ($5,111,000). at january 31, 2009, a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates (i.e. weakening foreign currencies) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of $5,323,000. the fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts at january 31, 2008 was not significant. precious metal price risk the company uses a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ( collars ) as hedges of a portion of forecasted purchases of platinum and silver for internal manufacturing. if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the collar is within the call and put price, the collar would expire at no cost to the company. the maximum term over which the company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions is 12 months. the fair value was primarily determined using quoted market prices for these instruments. the fair value of the outstanding collars was ($6,637,000) and $6,435,000 at january 31, 2009 and 2008. in 2008, the company experienced an unrealized loss on its hedging instruments due to sharp declines in the price of precious metals subsequent to the period in which the collars were entered into. at january 31, 2009 and 2008, a 10% appreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of ($4,964,000) and $11,000,000. at january 31, 2009 and 2008, a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of ($7,379,000) and $2,954,000. tiffany co. k - 45risk factors risk factors, that the registrant believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. although the registrant believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements which speak only as of the date this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission. the registrant undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information included in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in expectations or otherwise. tiffany co. k - 2 table of contents part i item 1. business. general history of business the registrant (also referred to as tiffany co. or the company ) is the parent corporation of tiffany and company ( tiffany ). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant common stock in 1987. the registrant is a holding company and conducts all business through its subsidiary corporations. through those subsidiaries, the company sells fine jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. financial information about industry segments the registrant segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is reported in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note r. segment information. narrative description of business all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. distribution and marketing maintenance of the tiffany co. brand the tiffany co. brand (the brand ) is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the registrant. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see trademarks below) and is inherent in consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; classic product positioning; distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany co. blue box); and sophisticated style and romance. tiffany business plan includes many expenses and strategies to maintain the strength of the brand. stores must be staffed with knowledgeable professionals to provide excellent service. elegant store and online environments increase capital and maintenance costs. display practices require sufficient store footprints and lease budgets to enable tiffany to showcase fine jewelry in a retail setting consistent with the brand positioning. stores in the best high street and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure, but reinforce the brand luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands. by the same token, over-proliferation of stores, or stores that are located in second-tier markets, can diminish the strength of the brand. the classic positioning of tiffany product line supports the brand, but limits the display space that can be afforded to fashion jewelry. tiffany packaging practices support consumer expectations with respect to the brand and are more expensive. some advertising is done primarily to reinforce the brand association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, while other advertising is primarily intended to increase demand for particular products. maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond tiffany co. k - 3 table of contents and gemstone inventory and accept reduced overall gross margins; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and profits and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, advertising or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if the tradeoff between sales and profit is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and will in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable distribution and marketing initiatives. reportable segments americas in 2009, sales in the americas were 52% of consolidated net sales, while sales in the u.s. represented 91% of net sales in the americas. retail sales. retail sales are transacted in company-operated tiffany co. stores in (number of stores included in parentheses): u.s. (79), mexico (7), canada (3) and brazil (2). internet and catalog sales . tiffany distributes a selection of its products in the u.s. and canada through its websites at www.tiffany.com and www.tiffany.ca. tiffany also distributes catalogs of selected merchandise to its proprietary list of customers in the u.s. and to mailing lists rented from third parties. selections catalogs are published four times per year, supplemented by other targeted catalogs. at the end of 2009, the company had approximately 4.2 million names on its u.s. internet and catalog mailing lists and in 2009 mailed approximately 12 million catalogs. business-to-business sales. business sales executives call on business clients, selling products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market, including trophies and items designed for the particular customer. most of such sales occur in the u.s. price allowances are given to business account holders for certain purchases. business customers have typically made purchases for gift giving, employee service and achievement recognition awards, customer incentives and other purposes. products and services are marketed through a sales organization, through advertising in newspapers, business periodicals and through the publication of special catalogs. business account holders may make gift purchases through the company website at http://business.tiffany.com . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in markets in the central/south american, caribbean and canadian regions. such sales represented less than 1% of the registrant net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. asia-pacific in 2009, sales in asia-pacific represented 35% of consolidated net sales, while sales in japan represented 54% of net sales in asia-pacific. tiffany co. k - 4 table of contents retail sales. retail sales are transacted in company-operated tiffany co. locations in (number of stores included in parentheses): japan (57), china (10), korea (10), hong kong (8), australia (5), taiwan (5), singapore (3), macau (2) and malaysia (2). business with department stores in japan . the registrant does business in japan through its wholly-owned subsidiary, tiffany co. japan, inc. ( tiffany-japan ). in 2009, 79% of tiffany-japan net sales were transacted in boutiques within japanese department stores. tiffany-japan also operates four freestanding stores. there are four large department store groups in japan. at the end of 2009, tiffany-japan was operating tiffany co. boutiques in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi (16), j. front retailing co. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (10), takashimaya (9), and millennium retailing co. (sogo and seibu department stores) (3). tiffany-japan was also operating 15 boutiques in stores controlled by other japanese companies. tiffany-japan and the department store operators have distinct responsibilities and risks in the operation of tiffany co. boutiques in japan. tiffany-japan: (i) has merchandising, marketing and display responsibilities, (ii) owns the merchandise, (iii) establishes retail prices, (iv) bears the risk of currency fluctuation, (v) provides one or more brand managers in each boutique, (vi) manages inventory, (vii) controls and funds all advertising and publicity programs with respect to tiffany co. merchandise and (viii) recognizes as revenues the retail price charged to the ultimate consumer. the department store operator: (i) provides and maintains boutique facilities, (ii) assumes retail credit and certain other risks and (iii) acts for tiffany-japan in the sale of merchandise. tiffany-japan provides retail staff and bears the risk of inventory loss in concession boutiques (49 locations) and, in limited circumstances, the department store operator provides retail staff and bears the risk of inventory loss in standard boutiques (4 locations). in return for its services and use of its facilities, the department store operator retains a portion (the basic portion) of net retail sales made in tiffany co. boutiques. the basic portion varies depending on the type of boutique and the retail price of the merchandise involved, with the fees generally varying from store to store. the highest basic portion available to any department store is 23% and the lowest is 14%. in recent years, tiffany-japan has, with the agreement of the involved department store operators, closed underperforming boutiques and relocated the boutiques to other department store locations in order to improve sales growth and profitability. management expects to continue to evaluate boutique locations to assess their potential for growth and profitability. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany co. merchandise for purchase in japan and australia through its websites at www.tiffany.co.jp and www.tiffany.com/au . business-to-business sales. products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed are sold to business customers. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in asia-pacific and middle eastern markets. such sales represented 1% of the registrant net sales in 2009 and 2% in both 2008 and 2007. tiffany co. k - 5 table of contents europe in 2009, sales in europe represented 12% of consolidated net sales, while sales in the united kingdom represented 51% of net sales in europe. retail sales. retail sales are transacted in company-operated tiffany co. stores in (number of stores included in parentheses): united kingdom (9), germany (5), italy (4), france (3), austria (1), belgium (1), ireland (1), the netherlands (1), spain (1) and switzerland (1). internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany co. merchandise for purchase in england, wales, northern ireland and scotland through its website at www.tiffany.com/uk . in 2010, the company plans to launch other websites to offer a selection of tiffany co. merchandise for purchase in austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain. business-to-business sales. products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed are sold to business customers. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale predominantly in russia. such sales represented less than 1% of the registrant net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. other other sales are those made in all non-reportable segments of the registrant business. sales in other consist primarily of wholesale sales of diamonds. other also includes earnings received from a licensing agreement with luxottica group for the distribution of tiffany co. brand eyewear. fees from a licensing agreement with the swatch group ltd. (the swatch group ) for tiffany co. brand watches will be included in other when earned. wholesale diamond sales. the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for further processing, but not all rough diamonds so purchased are suitable for tiffany needs. in addition, most, but not all, polished diamonds are suitable for tiffany jewelry. the company sells diamonds to third parties that are found to be unsuitable for tiffany needs. the company objective from such sales is to recoup its original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on those transactions. iridesse, inc. in the fourth quarter of 2008, management committed to a plan to close all iridesse stores. all stores were closed in 2009. the results of iridesse have been reclassified to discontinued operations. little switzerland, inc . in 2007, the company sold 100% of the stock of little switzerland, inc. ( little switzerland ) to an unaffiliated third party for net proceeds of $32,870,000. the company received an additional $3,650,000 in 2009 in settlement of post-closing adjustments. little switzerland results are presented in discontinued operations. the company continues to wholesale tiffany co. merchandise for resale in tiffany co. boutiques operated by little switzerland in certain little switzerland stores. in 2007, the company recorded a $54,260,000 pre-tax charge due to the sale of little switzerland. expansion of operations management regularly evaluates potential markets for new tiffany co. stores with a view to the demographics of the area to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury tiffany co. k - 6 table of contents brands and existing tiffany co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a significant number of locations remaining in the americas, asia-pacific (outside japan) and europe that meet the requirements of a tiffany co. location. tiffany opened two, smaller-format (approximately 2,500 gross square feet) stores in the u.s., one in 2008 and one in 2009. such stores offer a selected product assortment. management experience with the smaller format will influence the design of new stores which are expected to occupy 3,000 4,000 gross square feet and to combine visual and selling features developed for the smaller-format stores with elements from full assortment stores (5,000 gross square feet). management believes that this new hybrid format will most effectively serve our broader customers needs. the following chart details the number of tiffany co. retail locations operated by the registrant subsidiary companies since 1994: americas asia-pacific canada, latin/ other south asia- year: u.s. americas japan pacific europe total 1994 18 1 37 7 6 69 1995 21 1 38 9 6 75 1996 23 1 39 12 6 81 1997 28 2 42 17 7 96 1998 34 2 44 17 7 104 1999 38 3 44 17 8 110 2000 42 4 44 21 8 119 2001 44 5 47 20 10 126 2002 47 5 48 20 11 131 2003 51 7 50 22 11 141 2004 55 7 53 24 12 151 2005 59 7 50 25 13 154 2006 64 9 52 28 14 167 2007 70 10 53 34 17 184 2008 76 10 57 39 24 206 2009 79 12 57 45 27 220 in 2010, management plans to open 17 company-operated stores (six in the americas, eight in other asia-pacific and three in europe). management also plans to expand the company internet and wholesale distribution. products the company principal product category is jewelry, which represented 90%, 87% and 86% of the registrant net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. the company also sells timepieces, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances and personal accessories, which represented in total 9%, 11% and 12% of the registrant net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. the registrant remaining net sales were attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings received from a third-party licensing agreement. tiffany co. k - 7 table of contents tiffany offers an extensive selection of tiffany co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent named designers (see material designer license below). sales by reportable segment of tiffany co. jewelry by category % to total % to total % to total % to total 2009 americas asia-pacific europe reportable category sales sales sales segment sales a 25% 31% 23% 27% b 16% 31% 17% 21% c 12% 12% 12% 12% d 36% 20% 43% 31% % to total % to total % to total % to total 2008 americas asia-pacific europe reportable category sales sales sales segment sales a 26% 30% 25% 27% b 15% 30% 16% 20% c 11% 12% 12% 11% d 34% 20% 40% 30% % to total % to total % to total % to total 2007 americas asia-pacific europe reportable category sales sales sales segment sales a 28% 30% 27% 28% b 14% 29% 14% 18% c 11% 13% 12% 12% d 32% 21% 37% 29% a) this category includes most gemstone jewelry and gemstone band rings, other than engagement jewelry. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold or silver was used as the primary metal in approximately 15% of sales. most items in this category contain diamonds, other gemstones or both. the average price of merchandise sold in 2009, 2008 and 2007 in this category was approximately $2,300, $3,100 and $3,300 for total reportable segments. b) this category includes diamond rings and wedding bands marketed to brides and grooms. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 5% of sales. most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds. the average price of merchandise sold in 2009, 2008 and 2007 in this category was approximately $3,300, $3,000 and $3,000 for total reportable segments. c) this category generally consists of non-gemstone, gold or platinum jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. the average price of merchandise sold in 2009, 2008 and 2007 in this category was approximately $700 for total reportable segments in each year. d) this category generally consists of non-gemstone, sterling silver jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. the average price of merchandise sold in tiffany co. k - 8 table of contents 2009, 2008 and 2007 in this category was approximately $200 for total reportable segments in each year. certain reclassifications have been made to the prior years amounts to conform to the current year category presentation. in addition to jewelry, the company sells tiffany co. brand merchandise in the following categories: timepieces and clocks; sterling silver merchandise, including flatware, hollowware (tea and coffee services, bowls, cups and trays), trophies, key holders, picture frames and desk accessories; crystal, glassware, china and other tableware; custom engraved stationery; writing instruments; eyewear; leather goods and fashion accessories. fragrance products are sold under the trademarks tiffany, pure tiffany and tiffany for men. tiffany also sells other brands of timepieces and tableware in its u.s. stores. none of these categories individually represents 10% or more of net sales. advertising and promotion the registrant regularly advertises, primarily in newspapers and magazines, and periodically conducts product promotional events. in 2009, 2008 and 2007, the registrant spent $159,891,000 (5.9% of net sales), $204,250,000 (7.2% of net sales) and $188,347,000 (6.4% of net sales) on worldwide advertising, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, promotional events and other related items. in 2009, the company revised its definition of advertising and promotion to also include visual merchandising (i.e. in-store and window displays) and prior year amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation. public and media relations public and media relations activity is a significant aspect of the registrant business. management believes that tiffany image is enhanced by a program of charity sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. donations are also made to the tiffany co. foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations with efforts concentrated in environmental conservation and support for the decorative arts. tiffany also engages in a program of retail promotions and media activities to maintain consumer awareness of the company and its products. each year, tiffany publishes its well-known blue book which showcases jewelry and other merchandise. the registrant considers these and other promotional efforts important in maintaining tiffany image. trademarks the designations tiffany and tiffany co. are the principal trademarks of tiffany, as well as serving as trade names. through its subsidiaries, the company has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany co., as well as the tiffany blue box and the color tiffany blue for a variety of product categories in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany co. k - 9 table of contents tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that its u.s. trademark rights in tiffany and tiffany co. are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties (often small companies) on unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to fully address the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers and on the internet. as internet counterfeiting continues to become increasingly prolific, tiffany has responded by engaging investigators and outside counsel to monitor the internet and take various actions, including initiating civil proceedings against infringers and litigating through the internet uniform dispute resolution policy, to stop infringing activity. in july 2004, tiffany initiated a civil proceeding against ebay, inc. in the federal district court for the southern district of new york, alleging direct and contributory trademark infringement, unfair competition, false advertising and trademark dilution. tiffany sought damages and injunctive relief stemming from ebay alleged assistance and contribution to the offering for sale, advertising and promotion, in the u.s., of counterfeit tiffany jewelry and any other jewelry or merchandise which bears the tiffany trademark and is dilutive or confusingly similar to the tiffany trademarks. in november 2007, the case was tried as a bench trial and the court found in favor of ebay. the company appealed the decision in the second circuit and the parties presented their oral arguments to the court in july 2009. the company is awaiting the court decision. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany co. name and mark for the company products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category in every country of the world; third parties have registered the name tiffany in the u.s. in the food services category, and in a number of foreign countries in respect of certain product categories (including, in a few countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of litigation. material designer license tiffany has been the sole licensee for jewelry designed by elsa peretti since 1974. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 10% of the company net sales in 2009 and 11% in both 2008 and 2007. ms. peretti, age 69, retains ownership of copyrights for her designs and of her trademarks and exercises approval rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of her designs. tiffany is required by contract to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of her products and she is paid a royalty by tiffany for jewelry and other items designed by her and sold under her name. a written agreement exists between ms. peretti and tiffany, but it may be terminated by either party following six months notice to the other party. no arrangement is currently in place to continue the sale of designs following the death or disability of ms. peretti. tiffany is the sole retail source for merchandise designed by ms. peretti worldwide; however, she has reserved by contract the right to appoint other distributors in markets outside the u.s., canada, japan, singapore, australia, italy, the u.k., switzerland and germany. the registrant operating results could be adversely affected were it to tiffany co. k - 10 table of contents cease to be a licensee of ms. peretti or should its degree of exclusivity in respect of her designs be diminished. merchandise purchasing, manufacturing and raw materials the company manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of tiffany merchandise sold. the balance, including almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third parties. tiffany produces jewelry and silver goods in rhode island and new york and silver hollowware in new jersey. other subsidiaries of the company process, cut and polish diamonds at facilities outside the u.s. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but it is not expected that tiffany will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to outsource manufacturing include product quality, gross margin, access to or mastery of various jewelry-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity and the cost of capital investments. purchases of polished gemstones and precious metals . gemstones and precious metals used in making tiffany jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources. most purchases are from suppliers with which tiffany enjoys long-standing relationships. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with nearly all of its polished gemstone and precious metals vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by the company without penalty; such termination would not discharge the company obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders placed prior to the termination. products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for approximately 48%, 46% and 47% of tiffany net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. products containing one or more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 11%, 10% and 11% of net sales in each of those years. tiffany purchases polished diamonds principally from nine key vendors. were trade relations between tiffany and one or more of these vendors to be disrupted, the company sales could be adversely affected in the short term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. in 2008 and early 2009, the economic environment led to a reduction of retail and wholesale demand, and rough diamond prices and wholesale polished prices both declined accordingly. through the second half of 2009 and into 2010, industry-wide demand for rough and polished wholesale diamonds has increased and prices have risen accordingly. some, but not all, of tiffany suppliers are diamond trading company ( dtc ) sightholders (see the dtc below), and it is estimated that a significant portion of the diamonds that tiffany has purchased have had their source with the dtc. the company is a dtc sightholder for rough diamonds through its joint ventures (see below). except as noted above, tiffany believes that there are numerous alternative sources for gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. purchases and processing of rough diamonds . the company has established diamond processing operations that purchase, sort, cut and/or polish rough diamonds for use by tiffany. tiffany co. k - 11 table of contents the company now has such operations in belgium, south africa, botswana, namibia, china, mauritius and vietnam. operations in south africa, botswana and namibia are conducted through joint venture companies in which third parties own minority interests. the company has invested in the operations in south africa, botswana and namibia in order to increase its opportunity to buy rough conflict-free diamonds (see conflict diamonds below) and may invest in additional opportunities that will potentially lead to additional sources of such diamonds. however, management does not foresee a shortage of conflict-free diamonds in the short term. in 2009, approximately 70% of the polished diamonds acquired by tiffany for use in jewelry were produced from rough diamonds purchased by the company compared with 40% in both 2008 and 2007. the balance of tiffany needs for polished diamonds were purchased from third parties (see above). the increase to 70% in 2009 primarily reflected a significant reduction of purchases of polished diamonds from third parties. through purchasing rough diamonds, it is the company intention to supply tiffany needs for diamonds to as great an extent as possible. in order to acquire rough diamonds, the company must purchase mixed assortments of rough diamonds. it is thus necessary to purchase some rough diamonds that cannot be cut to meet tiffany quality standards and that must be sold to third parties; such sales are reported in the other non-reportable segment. to make such sales, the company charges a market price and is, therefore, unable to earn any significant profit above its original cost. sales of rough diamonds in the other non-reportable segment have had and will continue to have the effect of reducing the company overall gross margins. the company will, from time to time, secure supplies of diamonds by agreeing to purchase a defined portion of a mine output. under such arrangements, management anticipates that it will purchase approximately $75,000,000 of rough diamonds in 2010. the company will also purchase rough diamonds from other suppliers, although there are no contractual obligations to do so. the dtc. the supply and price of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the dtc, an affiliate of the de beers group. although the market share of the dtc has diminished, the dtc continues to supply a significant portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds. the dtc historical ability to control worldwide production has been significantly diminished due to changing policies in diamond-producing countries and revised contractual arrangements with third-party mine operators. the dtc continues to exert influence on the demand for polished diamonds through advertising and marketing efforts and through the requirements it imposes on those ( sightholders ) who purchase rough diamonds from the dtc. worldwide availability of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds to the dtc, tiffany and tiffany suppliers is dependent on the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines and the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds. as a consequence of changes in the dtc sightholder system and increased demand in the retail diamond trade, diamond prices increased significantly in the years leading up to 2008. during 2008 and early 2009, as global demand for rough diamonds waned, diamond prices decreased but began to rise again in the latter part of 2009. sustained interruption in the supply of rough diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect tiffany tiffany co. k - 12 table of contents and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising policies of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of conflict or blood diamonds. these terms are used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. it is not considered possible to distinguish conflict diamonds from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. concerned participants in the diamond trade, including tiffany and non-government organizations, such as the council for responsible jewellery practices, of which tiffany is a member, seek to exclude such diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation. it is expected that such efforts will not substantially affect the supply of diamonds. recently, events in zimbabwe underscore that the aforementioned system does not control diamonds produced in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. tiffany has instructed its vendors to not purchase zimbabwean-produced diamonds. manufactured diamonds. manufactured diamonds are produced in small quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce manufactured diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of manufactured diamonds, manufactured diamonds may someday become a larger factor in the market. should manufactured diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and price for natural diamonds may be affected. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 80 manufacturers, most of which have long-standing relationships with tiffany. however, tiffany does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. tiffany does enter into written blanket purchase order agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by tiffany without penalty; such termination would not discharge tiffany obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders placed prior to termination. the blanket purchase order agreements establish non-price terms by which tiffany may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to tiffany. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. tiffany actively seeks alternative sources for its top-selling jewelry items to mitigate potential difficulty in finding readily available alternative suppliers in the short term. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, tiffany may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . in 2007, the company entered into a 20-year license and distribution agreement with the swatch group for the manufacture and distribution of tiffany co. brand watches. under the agreement, the swatch group has incorporated a new watchmaking company in switzerland for the design, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and service of tiffany co. brand watches. the new company is authorized to use certain trademarks owned by the company and operate under the tiffany co. name. the distribution of tiffany co. watches will be made through the swatch group distribution network via swatch group affiliates, swatch group retail facilities and third-party distributors, as well as through tiffany co. stores, all of which commenced in late 2009. watch sales by the company constituted 1% of net sales in 2009 and 2% in 2008 and 2007. tiffany co. k - 13 table of contents competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. tiffany co. encounters significant competition in all product lines. some competitors specialize in just one area in which tiffany is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to tiffany and compete on the basis of that reputation. other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion, which has increased due to challenging economic conditions and decreased consumer demand. tiffany competes on the basis of its reputation for high-quality products, brand recognition, customer service and distinctive value-priced merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly fierce. tiffany price for diamonds reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other quality factors which increase the beauty of tiffany diamonds, but which also increase tiffany cost. tiffany competes in this market by stressing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2010, the registrant subsidiary corporations employed an aggregate of approximately 8,400 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 4,900 are employed in the united states. available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany co. and other companies that file materials with the sec electronically. you may also obtain copies of the company annual reports on form 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k, free of charge, on the company website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm. item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the registrant success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. the tiffany co. k - 14 table of contents following risk factors are specific to the registrant; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the registrant will achieve the financial objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) risk: that a continuation or worsening of challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the registrant sales. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the registrant sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the registrant earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. many of the registrant competitors may continue to react to falling consumer confidence by reducing their retail prices; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the registrant sales. in addition, some observers believe that the short-term attractiveness of luxury goods may have waned in certain markets, such as japan, thus reducing demand. this could adversely affect the registrant sales and margins. registrant has invested in and operates 20 stores in the hong kong, macau and mainland china markets and anticipates significant further expansion. some observers believe that the high levels of chinese economic growth may be unsustainable. should the chinese economy experience an economic slowdown, the sales and profitability of its stores in this region could be affected. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the registrant to forecast operating results. the registrant forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) risk: that sales will decline or remain flat in the registrant fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the registrant business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the registrant fourth quarter will have a material adverse effect on the registrant sales and profits. (iii) risk: that regional instability and conflict will disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises which result in military, terrorist or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions and local consumer spending where the registrant operates retail stores could adversely affect the registrant sales and profits. tiffany co. k - 15 table of contents (iv) risk: that foreign currencies will weaken against the u.s. dollar and require the registrant to raise prices or shrink profit margins in locations outside of the u.s. the registrant operates retail stores and boutiques in various countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in 2009, the registrant sales in those countries represented approximately half of its net sales, of which japan represented 19% of net sales. a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar would require the registrant to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the registrant goods; thus there is a risk that a substantial weakening of foreign currencies will result in reduced sales or profit margins. (v) risk: that the current volatile global economy may have a material adverse effect on the registrant liquidity and capital resources. the global economy and the credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in the past two years. a prolonged weakness in the economy, extending further than those included in management projections, could have an effect on the registrant cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing and could make it more difficult for the registrant to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. in addition, increased disruption in the markets could lead to the failure of financial institutions. if any of the banks participating in the registrant revolving credit facility were to declare bankruptcy, the registrant would no longer have access to those committed funds. any significant deterioration in the stock market could negatively affect the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. (vi) risk: that the registrant will be unable to continue to offer merchandise designed by elsa peretti. the registrant long-standing right to sell the jewelry designs of elsa peretti and use her trademarks is responsible for a substantial portion of the registrant revenues. merchandise designed by ms. peretti accounted for 10% of 2009 net sales. tiffany has an exclusive license arrangement with ms. peretti; this arrangement is subject to royalty payments as well as other requirements. this license may be terminated by tiffany or ms. peretti on six months notice, even in the case where no default has occurred. also, no agreement has been made for the continued sale of the designs or use of the trademarks elsa peretti following the death or disability of ms. peretti, who is now 69 years of age. loss of this license would materially adversely affect the registrant business through lost sales and profits. (vii) risk: that changes in prices of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability might adversely affect the registrant ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the registrant jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. acquiring diamonds for the engagement business has, at times, been difficult because of supply limitations; tiffany may not be able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors, clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. a significant change in the prices or supply of these commodities could adversely affect the registrant business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the price or supply of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the tiffany co. k - 16 table of contents quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. if trade relationships between the registrant and one or more of its significant vendors were disrupted, the registrant sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. (viii) risk: that the value of the tiffany co. trademark will decline due to the sale of counterfeit merchandise by infringers. the tiffany co. trademark is an asset which is essential to the competitiveness and success of the registrant business and the registrant takes appropriate action to protect it. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, the registrant enforcement actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeit of the registrant merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany co. goods remain available in many markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers, as well as on the internet. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany co. brand by undermining tiffany reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the brand would result in lost sales and profits. (ix) risk: that the registrant will be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. the registrant, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if the registrant cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and profits will be jeopardized. in japan, many of the retail locations are located in department stores. tiffany co. boutiques located in department stores in japan represented 79% of net sales in japan and 15% of consolidated net sales in 2009. in recent years, the japanese department store industry has, in general, suffered declining sales and there is a risk that such financial difficulties will force further consolidations or store closings. should one or more japanese department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a tiffany co. boutique, the registrant sales and profits would be reduced while alternative premises were being obtained. the registrant commercial relationships with department stores in japan, and their abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to be substantial factors affecting the registrant business in japan. (x) risk: that the registrant business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand. the tiffany co. brand association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of the registrant business. the registrant expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the brand appeal. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand and tarnishing its image. this would result in lower sales and profits. tiffany co. k - 17 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk the company japanese subsidiary satisfies nearly all of its inventory requirements by purchasing merchandise, payable in u.s. dollars, from the company principal subsidiary. to minimize the potentially negative effect of a significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the japanese yen, the company purchases put option contracts as hedges of forecasted purchases of merchandise over a maximum term of 12 months. the fair value of put option contracts is sensitive to changes in yen exchange rates. if the market yen exchange rate at the time of the put option contract expiration is stronger than the contracted exchange rate, the company allows the put option to expire, limiting its loss to the cost of the put option contract. the cost of outstanding put option contracts at january 31, 2010 and 2009 was $1,184,000 and $3,320,000. at january 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of outstanding put option contracts was $934,000 and $920,000. at january 31, 2010, a 10% appreciation in yen exchange rates (i.e. a strengthening yen) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of approximately $200,000. at january 31, 2010, a 10% depreciation in yen exchange rates (i.e. a weakening yen) from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of approximately $3,000,000. the company also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities and intercompany transactions between entities with differing functional currencies. gains or losses on these foreign exchange forward contracts substantially offset losses or gains on the liabilities and transactions being hedged. the term of all outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2010 ranged from one to 10 months. at january 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of the company outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was ($781,000) and $3,938,000. at january 31, 2010, a 10% appreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of approximately $9,000,000. at january 31, 2010, a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of approximately ($11,000,000). precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations in order to minimize the effect of volatility in precious metals prices. the company may use a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ( precious metal collars ) or forward contracts. for precious metal collars, if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar would expire at no cost to the company. the maximum term over which the company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions is 13 months. the fair value of the outstanding precious metal derivative instruments was $1,720,000 and ($6,637,000) at january 31, 2010 and 2009. in tiffany co. k - 42 table of contents 2008, the company experienced an unrealized loss on its hedging instruments due to sharp declines in the price of precious metals subsequent to the period in which the precious metal collars were entered into. at january 31, 2010, a 10% appreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of approximately $3,000,000. at january 31, 2010, a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of approximately $60,000. interest rate risk in the second quarter of 2009, the company entered into interest rate swap agreements to effectively convert certain fixed rate debt obligations to floating rate obligations. additionally, since the fair value of the company fixed rate long-term debt is sensitive to interest rate changes, the interest rate swap agreements serve as a hedge to changes in the fair value of these debt instruments. the company is hedging its exposure to changes in interest rates over the remaining maturities of the debt agreements being hedged. the fair value of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements was $1,996,000 at january 31, 2010. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at january 31, 2010 would have resulted in a fair value of approximately ($4,500,000). a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates at january 31, 2010 would have resulted in a fair value of approximately $9,500,000. tiffany co. k - 43 table of contentsrisk factors, that the registrant believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. although the registrant believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements which speak only as of the date this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission. the registrant undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information included in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in expectations or otherwise. tiffany co. k - 2 table of contents part i item 1. business item 1a. risk factors risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the registrant success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. the following risk factors are specific to the registrant; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the registrant will achieve the financial objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) risk: that challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the registrant sales. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the registrant sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the registrant earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. many of the registrant competitors may react to any declines in consumer confidence by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the registrant sales, especially given the registrant policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the registrant has invested in and operates more than 20 stores in the greater china region and anticipates significant further expansion. should the chinese economy experience an economic slowdown, the sales and profitability of those stores in this region could be affected. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the registrant to forecast operating results. the registrant forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) risk: that sales will decline or remain flat in the registrant fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the registrant business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the registrant fourth quarter will have a material adverse effect on the registrant sales and profits and will result in higher inventories. (iii) risk: that regional instability and conflict will disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. tiffany co. k - 15 table of contents unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises such as military actions, terrorist activities, natural disasters, government regulations or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions and local consumer spending where the registrant operates retail stores could adversely affect the registrant sales and profits. (iv) risk: that weakening foreign currencies may negatively affect the company sales and profitability. the registrant operates retail stores and boutiques in various countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in 2010, countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented approximately half of the registrant net sales and more than half of its earnings from continuing operations, of which japan represented 18% of the registrant net sales and 27% of the registrant earnings from continuing operations. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar would require the registrant to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the registrant goods; thus, there is a risk that a substantial weakening of foreign currencies will result in reduced sales and profitability. the results of the operations of the registrant international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. in addition, a weakening in foreign currency exchange rates may create disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the registrant operates retail stores which could adversely affect the registrant net sales and profitability. (v) risk: that volatile global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the registrant liquidity and capital resources. the global economy and the credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years. a prolonged weakness in the economy, extending further than those included in management projections, could have an adverse effect on the registrant cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing and could make it more difficult for the registrant to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. any significant deterioration in the stock market could negatively affect the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. (vi) risk: that the registrant will be unable to continue to offer merchandise designed by elsa peretti. merchandise designed by ms. peretti accounted for 10% of 2010 net sales. tiffany has an exclusive long-standing license arrangement with ms. peretti to sell her designs and use her trademarks; this arrangement is subject to royalty payments as well as other requirements. this tiffany co. k - 16 table of contents license may be terminated by tiffany or ms. peretti on six months notice, even in the case where no default has occurred. also, no agreement has been made for the continued sale of the designs or use of the trademarks elsa peretti following the death or disability of ms. peretti, who is now 70 years of age. loss of this license would have a material adverse affect on the registrant business through lost sales and profits. (vii) risk: that changes in costs of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability might adversely affect the registrant ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the registrant jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. presently, the company purchases a significant portion of the world rough and polished white diamonds in color grades d through i and in sizes above .18 carats. acquiring diamonds for the engagement jewelry business has, at times, been difficult because of supply limitations; at such times, tiffany may not be able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors, clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. a significant change in the costs or supply of these commodities could adversely affect the registrant business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. if trade relationships between the registrant and one or more of its significant vendors were disrupted, the registrant sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. (viii) risk: that the registrant will be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. the registrant, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if the registrant cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and profits will be jeopardized. in japan, many of the retail locations are within department stores. tiffany co. boutiques located in department stores in japan represented 79% of net sales in japan and 14% of consolidated net sales in 2010. in recent years, the japanese department store industry has, in general, suffered declining sales and there is a risk that such financial difficulties will force further consolidations or store closings. should one or more japanese department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a tiffany co. boutique, the registrant sales and profits would be reduced while alternative premises were being obtained. the registrant commercial relationships with department stores in japan, and their abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to be substantial factors affecting the registrant business in japan. (ix) risk: that the value of the tiffany co. trademark will decline due to the sale of counterfeit merchandise by infringers. the tiffany co. trademark is an asset which is essential to the competitiveness and success of the registrant business and the registrant takes appropriate action to protect it. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany co. goods through civil tiffany co. k - 17 table of contents action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, the registrant enforcement actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeit of the registrant merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany co. goods remain available in many markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers, as well as on the internet. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany co. brand by undermining tiffany reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the brand would result in lost sales and profits. (x) risk: that the registrant business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand. the tiffany co. brand association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of the registrant business. the registrant expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the brand appeal. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany co. brand and tarnishing its image. this would result in lower sales and profits. (xi) risk: that the earthquake-related events that have occurred in japan in march of 2011 will have a significant effect on the registrant sales and profits in the fiscal year ending january 31, 2012 and beyond. in 2010, japan represented 18% of the registrant consolidated worldwide net sales and 27% of the registrant earnings from continuing operations. the effect of earthquake-related events, including effects on the availability of electric power, public transportation, personal income tax rates, currency conversion rates and consumer confidence, could have an adverse effect on the registrant sales and profits for some period of time. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and put option contracts is sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates. gains or losses on foreign exchange forward contracts substantially offset losses or gains on the liabilities and transactions being hedged. for put option contracts, if the market exchange rate at the time of the put option contract expiration is stronger than the contracted exchange rate, the company allows the put option contract to expire, limiting its loss to the cost of the put option contract. there were no outstanding put option contracts as of january 31, 2011. the term of all outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2011 ranged from less than one month to 16 months. at january 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of the company outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was a net liability of $1,626,000 and $781,000. at january 31, 2011, a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of approximately ($20,000,000). precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations in order to minimize the effect of volatility in precious metals prices. the company may use either a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ( precious metal collars ) or forward contracts. for precious metal collars, if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar expires at no cost to the company. the maximum term over which the company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions is 12 months. the fair value of the outstanding precious metal derivative instruments was an asset of $753,000 and $1,720,000 at january 31, 2011 and 2010. at january 31, 2011, a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a fair value of approximately $300,000. interest rate risk the company uses interest rate swap agreements to convert certain fixed rate debt obligations to floating rate obligations. additionally, since the fair value of the company fixed rate long-term debt is sensitive to interest rate changes, the interest rate swap agreements serve as hedges to changes in the fair value of these debt instruments. the company hedges its exposure to changes in interest rates over the remaining maturities of the debt agreements being hedged. the fair value of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements was an asset of $6,155,000 and $1,996,000 at january 31, 2011 and 2010. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at january 31, 2011 would have resulted in a fair value of the interest rate swap agreements of approximately $1,200,000. tiffany co. k - 42 table of contentsrisk factors, that the registrant believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. although the registrant believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements which speak only as of the date this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission. the registrant undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information included in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in expectations or otherwise. tiffany &amp; co. k - 2 part i item 1. business. general history of business the registrant (also referred to as tiffany &amp; co. or the company ) is the parent corporation of tiffany and company ( tiffany ). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant common stock in 1987. the registrant is a holding company and conducts all business through its subsidiary corporations. through those subsidiaries, the company sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. financial information about industry segments the registrant segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is reported in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note q. segment information. narrative description of business all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. maintenance of the tiffany &amp; co. brand the tiffany &amp; co. brand (the brand ) is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the registrant. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see trademarks below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; classic product positioning; distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany &amp; co. blue box); and sophisticated style and romance. tiffany business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the brand, such as the following: to provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals; elegant stores in the best high street and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the brand luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands; in-store display practices enable tiffany to showcase fine jewelry in a manner consistent with the brand positioning but require sufficient space; the classic positioning of much of tiffany product line supports the brand, but limits the display space that can be allocated to new product introductions; tiffany packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the brand but is expensive; a significant amount of advertising is required to both reinforce the brand association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products; and tiffany &amp; co. k - 3 maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory and to accept reduced overall gross margins; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and profits and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, advertising or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if the tradeoff between sales and profit is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and will in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable distribution and marketing initiatives. reportable segments americas in 2011, sales in the americas were 50% of consolidated worldwide net sales, while sales in the u.s. represented 90% of net sales in the americas. retail sales. retail sales are transacted in company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2012 included in parentheses): the u.s. (87), mexico (7), canada (5) and brazil (3). included within these totals are six company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet and catalog sales . tiffany and its subsidiaries distribute a selection of their products in the u.s. and canada through the websites at www.tiffany.com and www.tiffany.ca . tiffany also distributes catalogs of selected merchandise to its proprietary list of customers in the u.s. and canada and to mailing lists rented from third parties. selections &reg; catalogs are published four times per year, supplemented by other targeted catalogs. business-to-business sales. business sales executives call on business clients, selling products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market, including trophies and items designed for the particular customer. most sales occur in the u.s. price allowances are given to business account holders for certain purchases. business customers have typically made purchases for gift giving, employee service and achievement recognition awards, customer incentives and other purposes. products and services are marketed through a sales organization, through advertising in newspapers, business periodicals and through the publication of special catalogs. business account holders may make purchases through the company website at www.tiffany.com/business . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in markets in the central/south american, caribbean and canadian regions. such sales represent less than 1% of consolidated worldwide net sales. asia-pacific in 2011, sales in asia-pacific represented 21% of consolidated worldwide net sales. retail sales. retail sales are transacted in company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of tiffany &amp; co. k - 4 stores at january 31, 2012 included in parentheses): china (16), korea (14), hong kong (8), taiwan (7), australia (5), singapore (4), macau (2) and malaysia (2). included within these totals are 21 company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in australia through its website at www.tiffany.com.au . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in asia-pacific markets. such sales represent less than 1% of consolidated worldwide net sales. japan in 2011, sales in japan represented 17% of consolidated worldwide net sales. retail sales. the registrant does business in japan through its wholly-owned subsidiary, tiffany &amp; co. japan, inc. ( tiffany-japan ), in 55 stores. included within this total are 51 tiffany-japan-operated stores located within japanese department stores, representing 79% of tiffany-japan net sales. there are four large department store groups in japan. tiffany-japan operates tiffany &amp; co. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at january 31, 2012 included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi (15), j. front retailing co. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (10), takashimaya (9) and millennium retailing co. (sogo and seibu department stores) (3). tiffany-japan also operates 14 stores in department stores controlled by other japanese companies. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in japan through its website at www.tiffany.co.jp . business-to-business sales. products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed are sold to business customers. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in japan. such sales represent less than 1% of consolidated worldwide net sales. europe in 2011, sales in europe represented 12% of consolidated worldwide net sales, while sales in the united kingdom represented approximately half of european net sales. retail sales. retail sales are transacted in company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2012 included in parentheses): the united kingdom (10), germany (6), italy (5), france (3), spain (2), switzerland (2), austria (1), belgium (1), ireland (1) and the netherlands (1). included within these totals are seven company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in the united kingdom, austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain through its websites which are accessible through www.tiffany.com . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in europe. such sales represent less than 1% of consolidated worldwide net sales. tiffany &amp; co. k - 5 other other consists of all non-reportable segments. other consists primarily of wholesale sales of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise to independent distributors for resale in certain emerging markets primarily in the middle east and russia ( emerging markets ) and wholesale sales of diamonds. in addition, other also includes earnings received from licensing agreements with luxottica group for the distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand eyewear and with the swatch group ltd. (the swatch group ) for tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. the earnings received from these licensing agreements represented less than 1% of consolidated worldwide net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. see item 3. legal proceedings for additional information. wholesale sales of diamonds. the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for further processing, but not all rough diamonds so purchased are suitable for tiffany needs. in addition, most, but not all, diamonds polished by the company are suitable for tiffany jewelry. the company sells to third parties those diamonds that are found to be unsuitable for tiffany needs. the company objective from such sales is to recoup its original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on those transactions. iridesse, inc. in the fourth quarter of 2008, management committed to a plan to close all iridesse stores. all stores were closed in 2009. the results of iridesse are reported as discontinued operations. expansion of operations management regularly evaluates potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores with a view to the demographics of the area to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany &amp; co. locations. management recognizes that oversaturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a significant number of locations remaining in the americas, asia-pacific (outside japan) and europe that meet the requirements of a tiffany &amp; co. location. the following chart details the number of tiffany &amp; co. retail locations operated by the registrant subsidiary companies since 2001: september 30, september 30, september 30, september 30, september 30, september 30, americas year: u.s. canada &amp; latin america asia- pacific japan europe total 2001 44 5 20 47 10 126 2002 47 5 20 48 11 131 2003 51 7 22 50 11 141 2004 55 7 24 53 12 151 2005 59 7 25 50 13 154 2006 64 9 28 52 14 167 2007 70 10 34 53 17 184 2008 76 10 39 57 24 206 2009 79 12 45 57 27 220 2010 84 12 52 56 29 233 2011 87 15 58 55 32 247 tiffany &amp; co. k - 6 as part of its long-term strategy to expand its worldwide store base, management plans to add 24 (net) company-operated stores in 2012 (nine in the americas, seven in asia-pacific, three in europe and commence operations of five stores in emerging markets). as noted above, the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries. sales transacted on those websites accounted for 6% of consolidated worldwide net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. the company continually invests in enhancing these websites and intends to expand its e-commerce sites to additional countries in the future. products the company principal product category is jewelry, which represented 91%, 91% and 90% of the registrant net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. tiffany offers an extensive selection of tiffany &amp; co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent named designers (see material designer license below). the company also sells timepieces, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances, personal accessories and leather goods, which represented, in total, 8%, 8% and 9% of the registrant net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. the registrant remaining 1% of net sales were attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings received from third-party licensing agreements. sales by reportable segment of tiffany &amp; co. jewelry by category september 30, september 30, september 30, september 30, september 30, % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales 2011 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 16 % 23 % 12 % 14 % 16 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 37 % 41 % 24 % 29 % silver &amp; gold jewelry c 33 % 28 % 16 % 46 % 30 % designer jewelry d 16 % 11 % 23 % 12 % 15 % 2010 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 15 % 23 % 13 % 13 % 16 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 21 % 35 % 42 % 25 % 28 % silver &amp; gold jewelry c 36 % 28 % 17 % 45 % 32 % designer jewelry d 17 % 12 % 21 % 13 % 16 % 2009 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 14 % 21 % 11 % 13 % 14 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 21 % 34 % 43 % 23 % 27 % silver &amp; gold jewelry c 38 % 30 % 19 % 47 % 34 % designer jewelry d 16 % 12 % 20 % 14 % 16 % tiffany &amp; co. k - 7 a) this category includes statement, fine and solitaire jewelry (other than engagement jewelry). most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 5% of sales. most items in this category contain diamonds, other gemstones or both. the average price of merchandise sold in 2011, 2010 and 2009 in this category was approximately $5,400, $4,400 and $4,200 for total reportable segments. b) this category includes diamond engagement rings and wedding bands marketed to brides and grooms. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 5% of sales. most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds. the average price of merchandise sold in 2011, 2010 and 2009 in this category was approximately $3,800, $3,400 and $3,200 for total reportable segments. c) this category generally consists of non-gemstone, sterling silver (approximately 70% of the category in 2011) or gold jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. this category does not include jewelry that bears a designer name. the average price of merchandise sold in 2011, 2010 and 2009 in this category was approximately $250, $220 and $210 for total reportable segments. d) this category generally consists of platinum, gold and sterling silver jewelry, some of which contains diamonds, other gemstones or a combination of both diamonds and other gemstones. this category includes only items that bear the name of and are attributed to one of the company named designers: elsa peretti, paloma picasso, frank gehry and jean schlumberger (refer to material designer license below). the average price of merchandise sold in 2011, 2010 and 2009 in this category was approximately $520, $450 and $420 for total reportable segments. certain reclassifications within the jewelry categories have been made to the prior years amounts to conform to the current year category presentation. advertising and marketing the registrant regularly advertises, primarily in newspapers and magazines, and also increasingly through digital media, and periodically conducts product marketing events. in 2011, 2010 and 2009, the registrant spent $234,050,000 (6.4% of net sales), $197,597,000 (6.4% of net sales) and $159,891,000 (5.9% of net sales) on worldwide advertising, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), marketing events and other related items. public and media relations public and media relations activities are significant to the registrant business and are important in maintaining the brand. the company engages in a program of media activities and retail marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the brand and tiffany &amp; co. products. each year, tiffany publishes its well-known blue book which showcases jewelry and other merchandise. management believes that the brand is also enhanced by a program of charity sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. in addition, the company makes donations to the tiffany &amp; co. foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations. the efforts of this foundation are concentrated in environmental conservation, urban parks and support for the decorative arts. tiffany &amp; co. k - 8 trademarks the designations tiffany &reg; and tiffany &amp; co. &reg; are the principal trademarks of tiffany, as well as serving as tradenames. through its subsidiaries, the company has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., as well as the tiffany blue box &reg; and the color tiffany blue &reg; for a variety of product categories in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that its worldwide trademark rights in tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties (often small companies) on unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to fully address the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers and on the internet. as internet counterfeiting continues to become increasingly prolific, tiffany has responded by engaging investigators and counsel to monitor the internet and take various actions, including initiating civil proceedings against infringers and litigating through the internet uniform dispute resolution policy, to stop infringing activity. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. name and mark for the company products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category in every country of the world; third parties have registered the name tiffany in the u.s. in the food services category, and in a number of foreign countries in respect of certain product categories (including, in a few countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of litigation. material designer license tiffany has been the sole licensee for jewelry designed by elsa peretti and bearing her trademark since 1974. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 10% of the company net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. ms. peretti, age 71, retains ownership of copyrights for her designs and of her trademarks and exercises approval rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of her designs. tiffany is required by contract to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of her products and she is paid a royalty by tiffany for jewelry and other items designed by her and sold under her name. a written agreement exists between ms. peretti and tiffany, but it may be terminated by either party following six months notice to the other party. no arrangement is currently in place to continue the sale of designs following the death or disability of ms. peretti. tiffany is the sole retail source for merchandise designed by ms. peretti worldwide; however, she has reserved by contract the right tiffany &amp; co. k - 9 to appoint other distributors in markets outside the u.s., canada, japan, singapore, australia, italy, the united kingdom, switzerland and germany. the registrant operating results would be adversely affected were it to cease to be a licensee of ms. peretti or should its degree of exclusivity in respect of her designs be diminished. merchandise purchasing, manufacturing and raw materials tiffany produces jewelry and silver goods in new york, rhode island and kentucky, and silver hollowware in new jersey. other subsidiaries of the company process, cut and polish diamonds at facilities outside the u.s. in total, those manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of tiffany merchandise sold. the balance, including almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third parties. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but it is not expected that tiffany will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to outsource manufacturing include product quality, gross margin, access to or mastery of various jewelry-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity and the cost of capital investments. purchases of polished gemstones and precious metals . gemstones and precious metals used in making tiffany jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources. most purchases are from suppliers with which tiffany enjoys long-standing relationships. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with nearly all of its polished gemstone and precious metals vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by the company without penalty; such termination would not discharge the company obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders placed prior to the termination. the company purchases precious metals for use in its u.s. internal manufacturing operations and for use in the manufacture of tiffany merchandise by certain third-party vendors. while tiffany may supply precious metals to those vendors, the finished goods made by such vendors may not exclusively contain tiffany-purchased precious metals. additionally, not all precious metals used by third-party vendors or in tiffany own manufacturing operations are sourced from a single mine or refinery. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of precious metals. products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for approximately 55%, 52% and 48% of tiffany net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. products containing one or more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 14%, 12% and 11% of net sales in each of those years. tiffany purchases polished diamonds principally from five key vendors. were trade relations between tiffany and one or more of these vendors to be disrupted, the company sales could be adversely affected in the short term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. in 2008 and early 2009, the economic environment led to a reduction of retail and wholesale demand, and rough diamond prices and wholesale polished prices both declined accordingly. in the second half of 2009, and throughout 2010 and 2011, a resumption of growth in industry-wide demand for rough and polished wholesale diamonds resulted in prices rising accordingly. some, but not all, of tiffany suppliers are diamond trading company ( dtc ) sightholders (see the dtc below), and it is estimated that a significant portion of the diamonds that tiffany has tiffany &amp; co. k - 10 purchased have had their source with the dtc. the company is a dtc sightholder for rough diamonds through its antwerp operations and joint ventures (see below). except as noted above, tiffany believes that there are numerous alternative sources for gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. purchases and processing of rough diamonds . of the world largest diamond producing countries, the vast majority of diamonds purchased by tiffany originate from botswana, canada, namibia, south africa, sierra leone, russia and australia. the company has established diamond processing operations that purchase, sort, cut and/or polish rough diamonds for use by tiffany. the company has such operations in belgium, south africa, botswana, namibia, mauritius and vietnam. operations in south africa, botswana and namibia are conducted through joint venture companies in which third parties own minority interests. tiffany maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with a single mine operator in each of these three southern african countries, although the company may choose to supplement its current operations with alternative mine operators from time to time. the company operations in south africa, botswana and namibia allow it to access rough diamond allocations reserved for local manufacturers. tiffany purchases of conflict-free rough (see conflict diamonds below) and polished fine white diamonds, in the color ranges d through i and in sizes above 0.18 carats represent a significant portion of the world supply of fine white diamonds in those color and size ranges. management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in those color and size ranges in the short term but believes that rising demand will eventually create such a shortage unless new mines are developed. in recent years, approximately 50% 60% of the polished diamonds acquired by tiffany for use in jewelry have been produced from rough diamonds purchased by the company. the balance of tiffany needs for polished diamonds have been purchased from third parties (see above). through purchasing rough diamonds, it is the company intention to supply tiffany needs for diamonds to as great an extent as possible. in order to acquire rough diamonds, the company must purchase mixed assortments of rough diamonds. it is thus necessary to purchase some rough diamonds that cannot be cut to meet tiffany quality standards and that must be sold to third parties; such sales are reported in the other non-reportable segment. to make such sales, the company charges a market price and is, therefore, unable to earn any significant profit above its original cost. sales of rough diamonds in the other non-reportable segment have had and will continue to have the effect of reducing the company overall gross margins. the company will, from time to time, secure supplies of diamonds by agreeing to purchase a defined portion of a mine output at the current market prices. under such arrangements, management anticipates that it will purchase approximately $200,000,000 of rough diamonds in 2012. the company will also purchase rough diamonds from other suppliers, although there are no contractual obligations to do so. the dtc. the supply and price of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the dtc, an affiliate of the de beers group. although the market share of the dtc has diminished, the dtc continues to supply a significant portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds. the dtc historical ability to control worldwide production has been significantly diminished due to its lower levels of production, tiffany &amp; co. k - 11 changing policies in diamond-producing countries and revised contractual arrangements with third-party mine operators. the dtc continues to exert influence on the demand for polished diamonds through the requirements it imposes on those ( sightholders ) who purchase rough diamonds from the dtc. worldwide availability and price of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds to the dtc, tiffany and tiffany suppliers are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines and the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds. as a consequence of changes in the dtc sightholder system and increased demand in the retail diamond trade, diamond prices increased significantly in the years leading up to 2008. during 2008 and early 2009, as global demand for rough diamonds waned due to economic conditions, diamond prices decreased but have increased again from the latter part of 2009 through 2011. sustained interruption in the supply of rough diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect tiffany and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising policies of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of conflict or blood diamonds. these terms are used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. it is not considered possible to distinguish conflict diamonds from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including tiffany and nongovernment organizations, such as the responsible jewellery council of which tiffany is a member, seek to exclude such diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the kimberley process certification scheme. all rough diamonds the company buys must be accompanied by a kimberley process certificate and all subsequent trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. it is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. concerns over human rights abuses in zimbabwe underscore that the aforementioned system does not control diamonds produced in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. tiffany has informed its vendors that the company does not intend to purchase zimbabwean-produced diamonds. manufactured diamonds. manufactured diamonds are produced in small quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce manufactured diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of manufactured diamonds, manufactured diamonds may someday become a larger factor in the market. should manufactured diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and price for natural diamonds may be affected. tiffany does not sell manufactured diamonds. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 70 manufacturers, most of which have long-standing relationships with tiffany. however, tiffany does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. tiffany does enter into written blanket purchase order agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by tiffany without penalty; such termination would not discharge tiffany obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders placed prior to termination. the blanket purchase order agreements establish non-price terms by which tiffany may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to tiffany. these terms include payment terms, shipping tiffany &amp; co. k - 12 procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. tiffany actively seeks alternative sources for its top-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, tiffany may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . prior to 2007, the company acquired tiffany &amp; co. brand watches from various swiss manufacturers. in 2007, the company entered into a 20-year license and distribution agreement with the swatch group for the manufacture and distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. under the agreement, the swatch group incorporated a new watchmaking company in switzerland for the design, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and service of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. this watchmaking company is wholly-owned and controlled by the swatch group but is authorized by tiffany to use certain trademarks owned by tiffany and operate under the tiffany &amp; co. name as tiffany watch co., ltd. the distribution of tiffany &amp; co. watches is made through the swatch group distribution network via the swatch group affiliates, the swatch group retail facilities and third-party distributors and resulted in royalty revenue that was less than 1% of consolidated worldwide net sales in 2011 and 2010. watches sold in tiffany &amp; co. stores constituted 1% of consolidated worldwide net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. see item 3. legal proceedings for additional information. competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. the company encounters significant competition in all product lines. some competitors specialize in just one area in which the company is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to the company and compete on the basis of that reputation. other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. the company competes on the basis of the brand reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. the company retail price for diamond jewelry reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the beauty of the diamonds, but which also increase the company cost. the company competes in this market by stressing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2012, the registrant subsidiary corporations employed an aggregate of approximately 9,800 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,300 are employed in the united states. tiffany &amp; co. k - 13 available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany &amp; co. and other companies that file materials with the sec electronically. copies of the company annual reports on form 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k, may be obtained, free of charge, on the company website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm . item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the registrant success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. the following risk factors are specific to the registrant; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the registrant will achieve the financial objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) risk: that challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the registrant sales. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the registrant sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the registrant earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. many of the registrant competitors may react to any declines in consumer confidence by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the registrant sales, especially given the registrant policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the registrant has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in the greater china region and anticipates significant further expansion. should the chinese economy experience an economic slowdown, the sales and profitability of stores in the greater china region as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists could be affected. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the registrant to forecast operating results. the registrant forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. tiffany &amp; co. k - 14 (ii) risk: that sales will decline or remain flat in the registrant fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the registrant business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the registrant fourth quarter will have a material adverse effect on the registrant sales and profits and will result in higher inventories. (iii) risk: that regional instability and conflict will disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises such as military actions, terrorist activities, natural disasters, government regulations or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions and local consumer spending where the registrant operates retail stores could adversely affect the registrant sales and profits. (iv) risk: that changes in the registrant product or geographic sales mix could affect the registrant profitability. the registrant sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the registrant geographical regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. if the registrant sales were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the registrant plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on the registrant expected profitability. (v) risk: that weakening foreign currencies may negatively affect the registrant sales and profitability. the registrant operates retail stores in various countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in 2011, sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented more than half of the registrant net sales and earnings from operations, of which japan represented 17% of the registrant net sales and 26% of the registrant earnings from operations. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar would require the registrant to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the registrant goods; thus, there is a risk that a substantial weakening of foreign currencies will result in reduced sales and profitability. the results of the operations of the registrant international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. in addition, a weakening in foreign currency exchange rates may create disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the registrant operates retail stores which could adversely affect the registrant net sales and profitability. tiffany &amp; co. k - 15 (vi) risk: that volatile global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the registrant liquidity and capital resources. the global economy and the credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years. any prolonged economic weakness could have an adverse effect on the registrant cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing and could make it more difficult for the registrant to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. any significant deterioration in the stock market could negatively affect the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. (vii) risk: that the registrant will be unable to continue to offer merchandise designed by elsa peretti. merchandise designed by ms. peretti accounted for 10% of 2011 net sales. tiffany has an exclusive long-standing license arrangement with ms. peretti to sell her designs and use her trademarks; this arrangement is subject to royalty payments as well as other requirements. this license may be terminated by tiffany or ms. peretti on six months notice, even in the case where no default has occurred. also, no agreement has been made for the continued sale of the designs or use of the trademarks elsa peretti following the death or disability of ms. peretti, who is now 71 years of age. loss of this license would have a material adverse effect on the registrant business through lost sales and profits. (viii) risk: that changes in costs of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the registrant ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the registrant jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. presently, the registrant purchases a significant portion of the world rough and polished white diamonds that meet the registrant quality standards. acquiring diamonds is difficult because of supply limitations and tiffany may not be able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors, clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. a significant change in the costs or supply of these commodities could adversely affect the registrant business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. if trade relationships between the registrant and one or more of its significant vendors were disrupted, the registrant sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. (ix) risk: that the registrant will be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. the registrant, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if the registrant cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and profits will be jeopardized. tiffany &amp; co. k - 16 in japan, many of the retail locations are within department stores. tiffany &amp; co. stores located in department stores in japan represented 79% of net sales in japan and 13% of consolidated net sales in 2011. in recent years, the japanese department store industry has, in general, suffered declining sales and there is a risk that such financial difficulties will force further consolidations or store closings. should one or more japanese department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a tiffany &amp; co. store, the registrant sales and profits would be reduced while alternative premises were being obtained. the registrant commercial relationships with department stores in japan, and their abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to be substantial factors affecting the registrant business in japan. (x) risk: that the value of the tiffany &amp; co. trademark will decline due to the sale of counterfeit merchandise by infringers. the tiffany &amp; co. trademark is an asset which is essential to the competitiveness and success of the registrant business and the registrant takes appropriate action to protect it. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, the registrant enforcement actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeit of the registrant merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers, as well as on the internet. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining tiffany reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the brand would result in lost sales and profits. (xi) risk: that the registrant business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of the registrant business. the registrant expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the brand appeal. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this would result in lower sales and profits. (xii) risk: that a significant privacy breach of the registrant information systems could affect the registrant business. the protection of customer, employee and company data is important to the registrant. the registrant customers expect that their personal information will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in the various jurisdictions in which the registrant subsidiaries do business. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage the registrant reputation, brand and relationship with customers and could result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. tiffany &amp; co. k - 17 (xiii) risk: that the loss, or a prolonged disruption in the operation, of the registrant centralized distribution centers could adversely affect the registrant business and operations. the registrant maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise, store replenishment and processing direct-to-customer orders. although the registrant believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and put option contracts is sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates. gains or losses on foreign exchange forward contracts substantially offset losses or gains on the liabilities and transactions being hedged. for put option contracts, if the market exchange rate at the time of the put option contract expiration is stronger than the contracted exchange rate, the company allows the put option contract to expire, limiting its loss to the cost of the put option contract. there were no outstanding put option contracts as of january 31, 2012. the term of all outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts as of january 31, 2012 ranged from less than one month to 13 months. at january 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of the company outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts were net liabilities of $3,545,000 and $1,626,000. at january 31, 2012, a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $18,000,000. precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations in order to minimize the effect of volatility in precious metals prices. the company may use either a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ( precious metal collars ) or forward contracts. for precious metal collars, if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar expires at no cost to the company. the maximum term over which the company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions is 12 months. at january 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of the company outstanding precious metal derivative instruments was a net liability of $313,000 and an asset of $753,000. at january 31, 2012, a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $7,500,000. interest rate risk the company uses interest rate swaps to convert certain fixed rate debt obligations to floating rate obligations. additionally, since the fair value of the company fixed rate long-term debt is sensitive to interest rate changes, the interest rate swaps serve as hedges to changes in the fair value of these debt instruments. the company hedges its exposure to changes in interest rates over the remaining maturities of the debt agreements being hedged. at january 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of the outstanding interest rate swaps were assets of $406,000 and $6,155,000. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at january 31, 2012 would have resulted in a fair value of the interest rate swaps of approximately $300,000. tiffany &amp; co. k - 41risk factors, that the registrant believes could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. although the registrant believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements which speak only as of the date this annual report on form 10-k was first filed with the securities and exchange commission. the registrant undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information included in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in expectations or otherwise. tiffany &amp; co. k - 2 part i item 1. business. general history of business the registrant (also referred to as tiffany &amp; co.) is a holding company that operates through its subsidiary companies (the company ). the registrant principal subsidiary is tiffany and company ( tiffany ). charles lewis tiffany founded tiffany business in 1837. he incorporated tiffany in new york in 1868. the registrant acquired tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the registrant common stock in 1987. the registrant, through its subsidiaries, sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications. financial information about industry segments the registrant segment information for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is reported in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note q. segment information. narrative description of business all references to years relate to fiscal years that end on january 31 of the following calendar year. maintenance of the tiffany &amp; co. brand the tiffany &amp; co. brand (the brand ) is the single most important asset of tiffany and, indirectly, of the registrant. the strength of the brand goes beyond trademark rights (see trademarks below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the brand. management monitors the strength of the brand through focus groups and survey research. management believes that consumers associate the brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; classic product positioning; distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the tiffany &amp; co. blue box); and sophisticated style and romance. tiffany business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the brand, such as the following: maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory and to accept reduced overall gross margins; it also causes some consumers to view tiffany as beyond their price range; to provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals; elegant stores in the best high street and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the brand luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands; in-store display practices enable tiffany to showcase fine jewelry in a manner consistent with the brand positioning but require sufficient space; the classic positioning of much of tiffany product line supports the brand, but limits the display space that can be allocated to new product introductions; tiffany &amp; co. k - 3 tiffany packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the brand but is expensive; and a significant amount of advertising is required to both reinforce the brand association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products. all of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and profits and brand maintenance objectives. this is a dynamic process. to the extent that management deems that product, advertising or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. at the same time, brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if the tradeoff between sales and profit is truly worth the positive effect on the brand. at times, management has determined, and will in the future determine, that the strength of the brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable distribution and marketing initiatives. reportable segments americas in 2012, sales in the americas were 48% of worldwide net sales, while sales in the u.s. represented 89% of net sales in the americas. retail sales. retail sales in the americas are transacted in 115 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2013 included in parentheses): the u.s. (91), canada (11), mexico (9) and brazil (4). included within these totals are 11 company-operated stores located within various department stores in canada and mexico. internet and catalog sales . tiffany and its subsidiaries distribute a selection of their products in the u.s. and canada through the websites at www.tiffany.com and www.tiffany.ca . to a lesser extent, sales are also generated through catalogs that tiffany distributes to its proprietary list of customers in the u.s. and canada and to mailing lists rented from third parties. business-to-business sales. business sales executives call on business clients, selling products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market, including trophies and items designed for the particular customer. most sales occur in the u.s. price allowances are given to business account holders for certain purchases. business customers have typically made purchases for gift giving, employee service and achievement recognition awards, customer incentives and other purposes. products and services are marketed through a sales organization, through advertising in newspapers and business periodicals, and through the publication of special catalogs. business account holders may also make purchases through the company website at www.tiffany.com/business . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in markets in the central/south american and caribbean regions. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. asia-pacific in 2012, sales in asia-pacific represented 21% of worldwide net sales. retail sales. retail sales in asia-pacific are transacted in 66 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. tiffany &amp; co. k - 4 stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2013 included in parentheses): china (22), korea (14), hong kong (8), taiwan (7), australia (6), singapore (5), macau (2) and malaysia (2). included within these totals are 23 company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in australia through its website at www.tiffany.com.au . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in asia-pacific markets. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. japan in 2012, sales in japan represented 17% of worldwide net sales. retail sales. the registrant does business in japan through its wholly-owned subsidiary, tiffany &amp; co. japan, inc. ( tiffany-japan ), in 55 stores. included within this total are 51 tiffany-japan-operated stores located within japanese department stores, representing 82% of tiffany-japan net sales. there are four large department store groups in japan. tiffany-japan operates tiffany &amp; co. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at january 31, 2013 included in parentheses): isetan mitsukoshi (14), j. front retailing co. (daimaru and matsuzakaya department stores) (10), takashimaya (9) and millennium retailing co. (sogo and seibu department stores) (4). tiffany-japan also operates 14 stores in department stores controlled by other japanese companies. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in japan through its website at www.tiffany.co.jp . business-to-business sales. products drawn from the retail product line and items specially developed are sold to business customers. wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in japan. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. europe in 2012, sales in europe represented 11% of worldwide net sales, while sales in the united kingdom represented slightly less than half of european net sales. retail sales. retail sales in europe are transacted in 34 company-operated tiffany &amp; co. stores in (number of stores at january 31, 2013 included in parentheses): the united kingdom (10), germany (6), italy (5), france (4), spain (2), switzerland (2), austria (1), belgium (1), the czech republic (1), ireland (1), and the netherlands (1). included within these totals are seven company-operated stores located within various department stores. internet sales. the company offers a selection of tiffany &amp; co. merchandise for purchase in the united kingdom, austria, belgium, france, germany, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain through its websites which are accessible through www.tiffany.com . wholesale distribution . selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in europe. such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. tiffany &amp; co. k - 5 other other consists of all non-reportable segments. retail sales. since july 2012, retail sales have been transacted in five tiffany &amp; co. stores in the united arab emirates ( u.a.e. ). see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note c. acquisition for additional information. wholesale distribution. selected tiffany &amp; co. merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in certain emerging markets primarily in the middle east and russia ( emerging markets ). such sales represent less than 1% of worldwide net sales. wholesale sales of diamonds. the company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for its polishing and further processing. some rough diamonds so purchased, and a small percentage of diamonds so polished, are found not to be suitable for tiffany jewelry; those diamonds are sold to third parties. the company objective from such sales is to recoup its original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on those transactions. licensing agreements. the company receives earnings from licensing agreements with luxottica group for the distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand eyewear and with the swatch group ltd. (the swatch group ) for tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. the earnings received from licensing agreements represented less than 1% of worldwide net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. see item 3. legal proceedings for additional information concerning the swatch group. expansion of operations management regularly evaluates potential markets for new tiffany &amp; co. stores with a view to the demographics of the area to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing tiffany &amp; co. locations. management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the brand, but believes that there are a significant number of opportunities remaining in new and existing markets that will meet the requirements for a tiffany &amp; co. location in the future. the following chart details the number of tiffany &amp; co. retail locations operated by the registrant subsidiary companies since 2002: americas year: u.s. canada &amp; latin america asia- pacific japan europe other total 2002 47 5 20 48 11 131 2003 51 7 22 50 11 141 2004 55 7 24 53 12 151 2005 59 7 25 50 13 154 2006 64 9 28 52 14 167 2007 70 10 34 53 17 184 2008 76 10 39 57 24 206 2009 79 12 45 57 27 220 2010 84 12 52 56 29 233 2011 87 15 58 55 32 247 2012 91 24 66 55 34 5 275 tiffany &amp; co. k - 6 as part of its long-term strategy to open additional stores, management plans to add 14 (net) company-operated stores in 2013 (opening 5 in the americas, 7 in asia-pacific and 3 in europe while closing one in japan). as noted above, the company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries. sales transacted on those websites accounted for 6% of worldwide net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. the company periodically invests in enhancing these websites and intends to expand its e-commerce sites to additional countries in the future. products the company principal product category is jewelry, which represented 90%, 91% and 91% of worldwide net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. tiffany offers an extensive selection of tiffany &amp; co. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent named designers (see material designer license below). the company also sells timepieces, leather goods, sterling silver goods (other than jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances and accessories, which represented, in total, 8% of worldwide net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. the remaining 1% 2% of worldwide net sales were attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings received from third-party licensing agreements. sales by reportable segment of tiffany &amp; co. jewelry by category 2012 % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 19 % 23 % 14 % 15 % 19 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 36 % 42 % 26 % 29 % silver, gold &amp; rubedo &reg; metal jewelry c 33 % 28 % 15 % 44 % 30 % designer jewelry d 14 % 11 % 21 % 11 % 14 % 2011 statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 18 % 24 % 13 % 15 % 18 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 23 % 37 % 41 % 24 % 29 % silver &amp; gold jewelry c 33 % 28 % 16 % 46 % 30 % designer jewelry d 14 % 9 % 22 % 11 % 14 % tiffany &amp; co. k - 7 2010 % of total americas sales % of total asia-pacific sales % of total japan sales % of total europe sales % of total reportable segment sales statement, fine &amp; solitaire jewelry a 17 % 24 % 13 % 15 % 17 % engagement jewelry &amp; wedding bands b 21 % 35 % 42 % 25 % 28 % silver &amp; gold jewelry c 36 % 28 % 17 % 45 % 32 % designer jewelry d 15 % 10 % 20 % 12 % 14 % a) this category includes statement, fine and solitaire jewelry (other than engagement jewelry). most items in this category contain diamonds, other gemstones or both. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 9% of sales. the average price of merchandise sold in 2012, 2011 and 2010 in this category was approximately $5,500, $5,400 and $4,400 for total reportable segments. b) this category includes diamond engagement rings and wedding bands marketed to brides and grooms. most sales in this category are of items containing diamonds. most jewelry in this category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary metal in approximately 6% of sales. the average price of merchandise sold in 2012, 2011 and 2010 in this category was approximately $3,800, $3,800 and $3,400 for total reportable segments. c) this category generally consists of non-gemstone, sterling silver (approximately 70% of the category in 2012), gold or rubedo &reg; metal (beginning in 2012) jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in some pieces. rubedo &reg; metal is an alloy composed of copper, gold and silver which was developed by the company. this category does not include jewelry that bears a designer name. the average price of merchandise sold in 2012, 2011 and 2010 in this category was approximately $260, $250 and $220 for total reportable segments. d) this category generally consists of platinum, gold and sterling silver jewelry (approximately 40% of the category in 2012), some of which contains diamonds, other gemstones or a combination of both. this category includes only items that bear the name of and are attributed to one of the company named designers: elsa peretti, paloma picasso and frank gehry (refer to material designer license below). the average price of merchandise sold in 2012, 2011 and 2010 in this category was approximately $490, $470 and $410 for total reportable segments. certain reclassifications within the jewelry categories have been made to the prior years amounts to conform to the current year category presentation. advertising, marketing, public and media relations the company regularly advertises, primarily in newspapers and magazines, and increasingly through digital media. public and media relations activities are also significant to the company business. the company engages in a program of media activities and marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the brand and tiffany &amp; co. products, as well as publishes its well-known blue book to showcase its high-end jewelry. in 2012, 2011 and 2010, the company spent $242,524,000, $234,050,000 and $197,597,000, representing 6.4% of worldwide net sales in all three years, on advertising, marketing, public and media relations, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), events and other related items. tiffany &amp; co. k - 8 in addition, management believes that the brand is enhanced by a program of charity sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. the company also makes donations to the tiffany &amp; co. foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations. the efforts of this foundation are concentrated in environmental conservation, urban parks and support for the decorative arts. trademarks the designations tiffany &reg; and tiffany &amp; co. &reg; are the principal trademarks of tiffany, and also serve as tradenames. through its subsidiaries, the company has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for tiffany and tiffany &amp; co., as well as the tiffany blue box &reg; and the color tiffany blue &reg; for a variety of product categories in the u.s. and in other countries. tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the company or its products. tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that the company worldwide trademark rights in tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. are strong. however, use of the designation tiffany by third parties on unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to eradicate the problem. the cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers and on the internet. tiffany has responded to internet counterfeiting by engaging investigators and counsel to monitor the internet and taking various actions to stop infringing activity, including sending cease and desist letters, initiating civil proceedings and participating in joint actions and anti-counterfeiting programs with other like-minded third party rights holders. despite the general fame of the tiffany and tiffany &amp; co. name and mark for the company products and services, tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name tiffany in every category of use in every country of the world; for example, third parties have registered the name tiffany in the u.s. in the food services category, and in a number of foreign countries in respect of certain product categories (including, in a few countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing and tobacco products) under circumstances where tiffany rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that tiffany foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of legal action. material designer license since 1974, tiffany has been the sole licensee for the intellectual property rights necessary to make and sell jewelry and other products designed by elsa peretti and bearing her trademarks. the designs of ms. peretti accounted for 10% of the company worldwide net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. tiffany &amp; co. k - 9 in december 2012, tiffany entered into an amended and restated agreement (the agreement ) with ms. peretti. pursuant to the agreement, which largely reflects the long-standing rights and marketing and royalty obligations of the parties, ms. peretti granted tiffany an exclusive license, in all of the countries in which peretti-designed jewelry and products are currently sold, to make, have made, advertise and sell these items. ms. peretti continued to retain ownership of the copyrights for her designs and her trademarks and remains entitled to exercise approval and consultation rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of the products made in accordance with her designs. under and in accordance with the terms set forth in the agreement, tiffany is required to display the licensed products in stores, to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of the licensed products, to pay royalties to ms. peretti for the licensed products sold, to increase the inventory of non-jewelry licensed products (such as tabletop products) to approximately $8,000,000 and to take certain actions to protect the use and registration of ms. peretti copyrights and trademarks. the agreement has a term of 20 years and is binding upon ms. peretti, her heirs, estate, trustees and permitted assignees. during the term of the agreement, ms. peretti may not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of her copyrights and trademarks unless the acquiring party expressly agrees with tiffany to be bound by the provisions of the agreement. the agreement is terminable by ms. peretti only in the event of a material breach by tiffany (subject to a cure period) or upon a change of control of tiffany or the company. it is terminable by tiffany only in the event of a material breach by ms. peretti or following an attempt by ms. peretti to revoke the exclusive license (subject, in each case, to a cure period). merchandise purchasing, manufacturing and raw materials tiffany produces jewelry in new york, rhode island and kentucky, and silver hollowware in new jersey. other subsidiaries of the company process, cut and polish diamonds at facilities outside the u.s. in total, those manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of tiffany merchandise sold. the balance, including almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third parties. the company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but it is not expected that tiffany will ever manufacture all of its needs. factors considered by management in its decision to use third party manufacturers include product quality, gross margin, access to or mastery of various jewelry-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity and the cost of capital investments. rough and polished diamonds . of the world largest diamond producing countries, the vast majority of diamonds purchased by tiffany originate from australia, botswana, canada, namibia, russia, sierra leone and south africa. the company has established diamond processing operations that purchase, sort, cut and/or polish rough diamonds for use by tiffany. the company has such operations in belgium, botswana, mauritius, namibia, south africa and vietnam. operations in botswana, namibia and south africa are conducted through companies in which third parties own minority interests. in namibia and south africa, a single third party owns a minority interest while in botswana, two third parties own minority interests. tiffany maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with these third parties in each of those countries, although the company may choose to supplement its current operations with alternative mine operators from time to time. the company operations in botswana, namibia and south africa allow it to access rough diamond allocations reserved for local manufacturers. in order to acquire rough diamonds, the company must purchase mixed assortments of rough diamonds. it is thus necessary to purchase some rough diamonds that cannot be cut and polished to meet tiffany quality standards and that must be sold to third parties; such sales are reported tiffany &amp; co. k - 10 in the other non-reportable segment. to make such sales, the company charges a market price and is, therefore, unable to earn a significant profit, if any, above its original cost. sales of rough diamonds in the other non-reportable segment have had and will continue to have the effect of reducing the company overall gross margins. the company will, from time to time, secure supplies of rough diamonds by agreeing to purchase a defined portion of a mine output at the market price prevailing at the time of production. management anticipates that it will purchase approximately $200,000,000 of rough diamonds in 2013 under such agreements. the company will also purchase rough diamonds from other suppliers, although it has no contractual obligations to do so. in certain instances, the company has provided loans to, or made equity investments in, mining projects in order to secure diamond supplies. the company may continue to do so. in recent years, approximately 50% 60% (by dollar value) of the polished diamonds used in jewelry have been produced from rough diamonds that the company has purchased. the balance of tiffany needs for polished diamonds have been purchased from polishers or polished diamond dealers. it is the company intention to continue to supply the majority of tiffany needs for diamonds by purchasing and polishing rough diamonds. the company purchases polished diamonds principally from five key vendors. the company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with its polished diamond vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; but such a termination would not discharge either party obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. however, were trade relations between the company and one or more of these vendors to be disrupted, the company sales could be adversely affected in the short term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes, including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and center-stones, accounted for approximately 55%, 55% and 52% of tiffany worldwide net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. products containing one or more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 13%, 14% and 12% of worldwide net sales in each of those years. conflict diamonds. media attention has been drawn to the issue of conflict or blood diamonds. these terms are used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. management believes that it is not possible in most purchasing scenarios to distinguish conflict diamonds from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including tiffany and nongovernment organizations, such as the responsible jewellery council of which tiffany is a member, seek to exclude such diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the kimberley process certification scheme. all rough diamonds the company buys must be accompanied by a kimberley process certificate when exported from the producing country and all subsequent trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. it is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. concerns over human rights abuses in zimbabwe underscore that the aforementioned system does not control diamonds produced in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. tiffany has informed its vendors that the company does not intend to purchase zimbabwean-produced diamonds. the diamond trading company ( dtc ). the supply and price of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the dtc, an affiliate of the tiffany &amp; co. k - 11 de beers group. over the past decade, the dtc historical ability to control worldwide production has been significantly diminished due to its lower share of worldwide production, changing policies in diamond-producing countries and revised contractual arrangements with third-party mine operators. as such, although the market share of the dtc has diminished, the dtc continues to supply a meaningful portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds. the dtc continues to exert influence on the demand for polished diamonds through the requirements it imposes on those ( sightholders ) who purchase rough diamonds from the dtc. some, but not all, of tiffany suppliers are dtc sightholders and it is estimated that a significant portion of the diamonds that tiffany has purchased have had their source with the dtc. the company is a dtc sightholder for rough diamonds through its operations in belgium and joint ventures (see rough and polished diamonds above). worldwide availability and price of diamonds . the availability and price of diamonds are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines, the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds and levels of industry liquidity. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of both rough and polished diamonds. prices for rough diamonds do not necessarily reflect current demand for polished diamonds. sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect tiffany and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. changes in the marketing and advertising spending of the dtc and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds. the company purchases conflict-free rough and polished fine white diamonds, in the color ranges d through i. management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in this color range in the short term but believes that rising demand will eventually create such a shortage, and lead to higher prices, unless new mines are developed. manufactured diamonds. manufactured diamonds are produced in small but growing quantities. although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to produce manufactured diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of manufactured diamonds, manufactured diamonds may someday become a larger factor in the market. should manufactured diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and price for natural diamonds may be affected. tiffany does not intend to sell manufactured diamonds. purchases of other polished gemstones and precious metals . other polished gemstones and precious metals used in making tiffany jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources. most purchases are from suppliers with which tiffany enjoys long-standing relationships. tiffany generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with other polished gemstone and precious metals vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. tiffany purchases precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations and for use by third party manufacturers contracted to supply tiffany merchandise. while tiffany may supply precious metals to a manufacturer, tiffany cannot determine, in all circumstances, whether the finished goods provided by such manufacturer were actually produced with tiffany-supplied tiffany &amp; co. k - 12 precious metals. additionally, not all precious metals used by third-party vendors or in tiffany own manufacturing operations are sourced from a single mine or refinery. in recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of precious metals. tiffany believes that there are numerous alternative sources for other polished gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations. finished jewelry . finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 60 manufacturers, most of which have long-standing relationships with tiffany. however, tiffany does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. tiffany does enter into written blanket purchase order agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. these relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to termination. the blanket purchase order agreements establish non-price terms by which tiffany may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to tiffany. these terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. tiffany actively seeks alternative sources for its top-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. however, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, tiffany may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term. watches . prior to 2007, the company arranged for the production of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches with various third party swiss component manufacturers and assemblers. in 2007, the company entered into a 20-year license and distribution agreement with the swatch group for the manufacture and distribution of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. (see item 3. legal proceedings for additional information regarding the current arbitration proceeding between both parties.) under the agreement, the swatch group incorporated a new watchmaking company in switzerland for the design, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and service of tiffany &amp; co. brand watches. this watchmaking company is wholly-owned and controlled by the swatch group but is authorized by tiffany to use certain trademarks owned by tiffany and operate under the tiffany &amp; co. name as tiffany watch co., ltd. under the agreement, tiffany and its affiliated companies may only purchase tiffany &amp; co. brand watches from the swatch group. the distribution of tiffany &amp; co. watches is made through the company stores, the swatch group distribution network via the swatch group affiliates, the swatch group retail facilities and third-party distributors. this arrangement resulted in royalty revenue to the company from the swatch group that has not been significant in any year. tiffany &amp; co. brand watches sold in the company stores constituted 1% of worldwide net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. competition the global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. the company encounters significant competition in all product lines. some competitors specialize in just one area in which the company is active. many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to the company and compete on the basis of that reputation. other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. the company competes on the basis of the brand reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising. competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. the company retail price for diamond jewelry reflects the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the tiffany &amp; co. k - 13 beauty of the diamonds, but which also increase the company cost. the company competes in this market by stressing quality. seasonality as a jeweler and specialty retailer, the company business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. management expects such seasonality to continue. employees as of january 31, 2013, the company employed an aggregate of approximately 9,900 full-time and part-time persons. of those employees, approximately 5,100 are employed in the united states. available information the company files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the public may read and copy these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding tiffany &amp; co. and other companies that file materials with the sec electronically. copies of the company annual reports on form 10-k, forms 10-q and forms 8-k, may be obtained, free of charge, on the company website at http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm . item 1a. risk factors. as is the case for any retailer, the registrant success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. however, certain factors are specific to the registrant and/or the markets in which it operates. the following risk factors are specific to the registrant; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the registrant will achieve the financial objectives and expectations communicated by management: (i) challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the registrant sales. as a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the registrant sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects. consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the registrant earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment. tiffany &amp; co. k - 14 many of the registrant competitors may react to any declines in consumer confidence by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the registrant sales, especially given the registrant policy of not engaging in price promotional activity. the registrant has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in the greater china region and anticipates significant further expansion. should the chinese economy continue to experience an economic slowdown, the sales and profitability of stores in the greater china region as well as stores in other markets that serve chinese tourists could be further affected. uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the registrant to forecast operating results. the registrant forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material. (ii) sales may decline or remain flat in the registrant fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. the registrant business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. poor sales results during the registrant fourth quarter would have a material adverse effect on the registrant sales and profits and would result in higher inventories. (iii) the registrant conducts significant operations outside the united states, and the risks of doing business internationally could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. the registrant generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the united states. in addition, it has foreign manufacturing operations, maintains investments in, and provides loans to, foreign business and relies to an extent on foreign third party vendors and suppliers. as a result, the registrant is subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of u.s. companies abroad; potential negative consequences from changes in taxation policies or currency restructurings; import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements; economic instability in foreign countries; the difficulty of managing an organization doing business in many jurisdictions; uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; and inventory risk exposures related to providing raw materials to foreign vendors. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the registrant revenues, increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. tiffany &amp; co. k - 15 (iv) regional instability and conflict could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending. unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises such as military actions, terrorist activities, natural disasters, government regulations or other conditions creating disruptions or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions and local consumer spending where the registrant operates retail stores could adversely affect the registrant sales and profits. (v) weakening foreign currencies may negatively affect the registrant sales and profitability. the registrant operates retail stores in various countries outside of the u.s. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in 2012, sales in countries outside of the u.s. in aggregate represented more than half of the registrant net sales and earnings from operations, of which japan represented 17% of the registrant net sales and 29% of the registrant earnings from operations. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar would require the registrant to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the u.s. consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the registrant goods; thus, there is a risk that a substantial weakening of foreign currencies would result in reduced sales and profitability. the results of the operations of the registrant international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into u.s. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. in addition, a weakening in foreign currency exchange rates may create disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the registrant operates retail stores which could adversely affect the registrant net sales and profitability. (vi) volatile global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the registrant liquidity and capital resources. the global economy and the credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years. any prolonged economic weakness could have an adverse effect on the registrant cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing and could make it more difficult for the registrant to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. in addition, any significant deterioration in the stock market could negatively affect the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements. (vii) changes in the registrant product or geographic sales mix could affect the registrant profitability. the registrant sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. additionally, the registrant geographical regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. if the registrant sales were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the registrant plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on the registrant expected profitability. tiffany &amp; co. k - 16 (viii) changes in costs of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the registrant ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins. most of the registrant jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. acquiring diamonds is difficult because of limited supply and tiffany may not be able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors, clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. a significant change in the costs or supply of these commodities could adversely affect the registrant business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. a substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of raw materials and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. if trade relationships between the registrant and one or more of its significant vendors were disrupted, the registrant sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. (ix) the registrant may be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations. the registrant, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. if the registrant cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and profits will be jeopardized. in japan, many of the retail locations are within department stores. tiffany &amp; co. stores located in department stores in japan represented 82% of net sales in japan and 13% of worldwide net sales in 2012. in recent years, the japanese department store industry has, in general, suffered declining sales and there is a risk that such financial difficulties will force further consolidations or store closings. should one or more japanese department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a tiffany &amp; co. store, the registrant sales and profits would be reduced while alternative premises were being obtained. the registrant commercial relationships with department stores in japan, and their abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to be substantial factors affecting the registrant business in japan. (x) the value of the tiffany &amp; co. trademark could decline due to the sale of counterfeit merchandise by infringers. the tiffany &amp; co. trademark is an asset which is essential to the competitiveness and success of the registrant business and the registrant takes appropriate action to protect it. tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. however, the registrant enforcement actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeit of the registrant merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit tiffany &amp; co. goods remain available in many markets. in recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, in various markets by street vendors and small retailers, as well as on the internet. the continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the tiffany &amp; co. brand by undermining tiffany reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. damage to the brand would result in lost sales and profits. tiffany &amp; co. k - 17 (xi) the registrant business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand. the tiffany &amp; co. brand association with quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of the registrant business. the registrant expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the brand appeal. consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the tiffany &amp; co. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the tiffany &amp; co. brand and tarnishing its image. this would result in lower sales and profits. in addition, adverse publicity regarding tiffany &amp; co. products or in respect of tiffany third party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industry, and any media coverage resulting there from, may harm the tiffany &amp; co. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the tiffany &amp; co. brand and the industry, and negatively effect the registrant results of operations. the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. (xii) if diamond mining and exploration companies, to which the registrant or its subsidiaries have provided financing, were to experience financial difficulties, those funds might not be recovered, which would reduce the registrant profits and could result in the registrant losing access to the mine output. the registrant and its subsidiaries may, from time to time, provide financing to diamond mining and exploration companies in order to obtain rights to purchase mining output. as of january 31, 2013, the carrying amount of receivables was $66,963,000 under these arrangements. mining operations are inherently risky, and there is no assurance that the diamond mining and exploration companies under these arrangements will be able to meet their obligations to the registrant. if a diamond mining or exploration company defaults under these financings, the registrant would be required to take a period charge in respect of all or a portion of the financing, which would affect the registrant profits. additionally, the registrant could lose access to the mine output under the related supply agreements. the registrant has experienced such situations in the past. (xiii) a significant privacy breach of the registrant information systems could affect its business. the protection of customer, employee and company data is important to the registrant. the registrant customers expect that their personal information will be adequately protected. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in the various jurisdictions in which the registrant subsidiaries do business. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage the registrant reputation, brand and relationship with customers and could result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. (xiv) the loss, or a prolonged disruption in the operation, of the registrant centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations. the registrant maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in new jersey. both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise, store replenishment and processing direct-to-customer orders. although the registrant believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders. tiffany &amp; co. k - 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, precious metal prices and interest rates, which could affect its consolidated financial position, earnings and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company uses derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes, and does not maintain such instruments that may expose the company to significant market risk. foreign currency risk the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts or put option contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risks associated with foreign currency-denominated liabilities, intercompany transactions and forecasted purchases of merchandise between entities with differing functional currencies. the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and put option contracts is sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates. gains or losses on foreign exchange forward contracts substantially offset losses or gains on the liabilities and transactions being hedged. for put option contracts, if the market exchange rate at the time of the put option contract expiration is stronger than the contracted exchange rate, the company allows the put option contract to expire, limiting its loss to the cost of the put option contract. the term of all outstanding foreign exchange forward and put option contracts as of january 31, 2013 ranged from less than one month to 12 months. at january 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of the company outstanding foreign exchange forward and put option contracts were net assets of $18,968,000 and net liabilities $3,545,000, respectively. at january 31, 2013, a 10% depreciation in the hedged foreign exchange rates from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in an asset with a fair value of approximately $7,000,000. tiffany &amp; co. k - 43 precious metal price risk the company periodically hedges a portion of its forecasted purchases of precious metals for use in its internal manufacturing operations in order to minimize the effect of volatility in precious metals prices. the company may use either a combination of call and put option contracts in net-zero-cost collar arrangements ( precious metal collars ) or forward contracts. for precious metal collars, if the price of the precious metal at the time of the expiration of the precious metal collar is within the call and put price, the precious metal collar expires at no cost to the company. the maximum term over which the company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions is 12 months. at january 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of the company outstanding precious metal derivative instruments was a net asset of $362,000 and a net liability of $313,000, respectively. at january 31, 2013, a 10% depreciation in precious metal prices from the prevailing market rates would have resulted in a liability with a fair value of approximately $3,000,000. tiffany &amp; co. k - 44