risk factors 12 risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "hilton worldwide," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. we refer to the estimated 314,000 individuals working at our owned, leased, managed, franchised, timeshare and corporate locations worldwide as of december 31, 2013 as our "team members." of these team members, approximately 152,000 were directly employed or supervised by us and the remaining team members were employed or supervised by third parties. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these hotels, resorts and rooms, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest and the remaining hotels, resorts and rooms are owned by our third-party owners. investment funds associated with or designated by the blackstone group l.p. and their affiliates, our current majority owners, are referred to herein as "blackstone" or "our sponsor." reference to "adr" or "average daily rate" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of rooms sold in a given period and "revpar" or "revenue per available room" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for further discussion over these financial metrics. item 1. business overview hilton worldwide is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,115 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 678,630 rooms in 91 countries and territories. in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of 10 world-class brands. our flagship full-service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio also includes our luxury hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts and conrad hotels &amp; resorts, our full-service hotel brands, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites hotels, our focused-service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton inn, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. more than 314,000 team members proudly serve in our properties and corporate offices around the world, and we have approximately 40 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors. we operate our business through three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. these complementary business segments enable us to capitalize on our strong brands, global market presence and significant operational scale. through our management and franchise segment, which consists of 3,918 hotels with 610,413 rooms, we manage hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. our ownership 2 segment consists of 155 hotels with 61,670 rooms in which we have an ownership interest or lease. through our timeshare segment, which consists of 42 properties comprising 6,547 units, we market and sell timeshare intervals, operate timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club and provide consumer financing. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which includes 194,572 rooms scheduled to be opened in the future, 99 percent of which are in our management and franchise segment. as of december 31, 2013 , 101,810 rooms, representing 52 percent of our development pipeline, were under construction. the expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong brands and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton hhonors loyalty program, which has approximately 40 million members. satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal initial capital investment, put us in a strong position to further improve our business. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2013 brand (1) segment countries/ territories hotels rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 10 24 10,529 1.6% ritz carlton, four seasons, peninsula, st. regis, mandarin oriental luxury 17 23 7,877 1.2% park hyatt, sofitel, intercontinental, jw marriott, fairmont upper upscale 80 554 196,670 29.0% marriott, sheraton, hyatt, radisson blu, renaissance, westin, sofitel, swissotel, m venpick upscale 32 371 93,054 13.7% sheraton, marriott, crowne plaza, wyndham, radisson, moevenpick, hotel nikko, holiday inn, renaissance upper upscale 5 215 51,367 7.6% renaissance, sheraton, hyatt, residence inn by marriott upscale 19 581 79,878 11.8% courtyard by marriott, holiday inn, hyatt place, novotel, aloft, four points by sheraton upper midscale 15 1,937 190,635 28.1% fairfield inn by marriott, holiday inn express, comfort inn, quality inn, la quinta inns, wyngate by wyndham upscale 3 333 36,778 5.4% residence inn by marriott, hyatt house, staybridge suites, candlewood suites upper midscale 2 27 2,928 0.4% candlewood suites, americinn, towne place suites timeshare 3 42 6,547 1.0% marriott vacation club, starwood vacation ownership, hyatt residence, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes 8 unbranded hotels with 2,367 rooms, representing approximately 0.2% of total rooms. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 24 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties 4 typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with 554 hotels and resorts in 80 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full-service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full-service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree is united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and a warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. embassy suites hotels : embassy suites are our upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive value at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale hotel brand that strives to ensure today's busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. from the serta perfect sleeper bed, to complimentary internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, hilton garden inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys. hampton inn : hampton inn hotels are our moderately priced, upper midscale hotels with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel room accommodations and apartment style suites within one property. across our over 1,900 hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the hampton satisfaction guarantee. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton are our upscale, extended-stay hotels that feature residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. the brand provides the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton, our newest brand, are upper midscale hotels that provide a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. the hotel offers a complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations ("hgv") is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each club property provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our customer loyalty program hilton hhonors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of 10 brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,000 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other rewards. members also can earn points with over 140 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 40 million members. our hilton hhonors members represented approximately 50 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues of over $12 billion during the year ended december 31, 2013 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton hhonors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton hhonors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. 5 our businesses we operate our business across three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 24 : "business segments" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 as of december 31, 2013 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total hotels rooms hotels rooms hotels rooms hotels rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 2 1,601 12 5,691 14 7,292 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 248 1 984 2 1,232 europe 1 370 3 672 4 1,042 mea 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 1 260 1 260 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,335 4 1,335 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 294 1 294 europe 1 191 2 741 3 932 mea 1 617 2 641 3 1,258 asia pacific 11 3,422 1 636 12 4,058 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 23 21,096 42 24,939 181 54,083 246 100,118 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 1,836 21 7,339 18 5,487 42 14,662 europe 74 19,014 56 15,798 21 5,309 151 40,121 mea 6 2,279 43 13,411 1 410 50 16,100 asia pacific 8 3,957 49 18,738 8 2,974 65 25,669 doubletree by hilton u.s. 12 4,456 28 8,204 237 58,329 277 70,989 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 637 11 2,063 14 2,700 europe 11 3,474 34 5,523 45 8,997 mea 4 842 3 431 7 1,273 asia pacific 26 8,130 2 965 28 9,095 embassy suites hotels u.s. 18 4,561 39 10,323 151 34,740 208 49,624 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 473 5 1,270 7 1,743 hilton garden inn u.s. 2 290 5 635 514 69,607 521 70,532 americas (excluding u.s.) 5 685 23 3,575 28 4,260 europe 15 2,620 12 1,751 27 4,371 mea 1 180 1 180 asia pacific 4 535 4 535 hampton inn u.s. 1 130 50 6,238 1,803 173,677 1,854 180,045 americas (excluding u.s.) 6 729 53 6,536 59 7,265 europe 4 492 19 2,761 23 3,253 asia pacific 1 72 1 72 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 38 4,342 284 31,266 322 35,608 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 102 10 1,068 11 1,170 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 26 2,831 26 2,831 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 97 1 97 other 3 1,272 5 1,095 8 2,367 lodging 155 61,670 498 143,771 3,420 466,642 4,073 672,083 hilton grand vacations 42 6,547 42 6,547 total 155 61,670 540 150,318 3,420 466,642 4,115 678,630 ____________ (1) includes hotels owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. 7 management and franchise through our management and franchise segment we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel and timeshare management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of each hotel's gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. as of december 31, 2013 , we managed 498 hotels with 143,771 rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels. the initial terms of our management agreements for full-service hotels typically are 20 years. in certain cases where we have entered into a franchise agreement as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full-service hotels. typically these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. in addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, we provide management services for 42 timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and 155 owned, leased and joint venture hotels, from which we recognize management fee revenues. franchising we franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. we do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained and consult with franchisees concerning certain aspects of hotel operations. we approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. in some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system. as of december 31, 2013 , there were 3,420 franchised hotels with 466,642 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton hhonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. our franchise agreements typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new construction and approximately 10 to 20 years for properties that are converted from other brands. at the expiration of the initial term, we may relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. 8 ownership we are among the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties includes a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as new york city, london, san francisco, chicago, o paolo, sydney and tokyo. the portfolio includes iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including the waldorf astoria new york, the hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. in recent years, we have expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners. we have focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we have developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property, and at many of our hotels we have renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. at certain of our hotels, we are evaluating options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use. timeshare our timeshare segment generates revenue from three primary sources: timeshare sales we market and sell timeshare interests owned by hilton and third parties. we also source timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. this allows us to sell timeshare units on behalf of third-party developers in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property. resort operations we manage the hgv club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. we generate rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under our hgv club program. we also earn revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties. financing we provide consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans. hgv's primary product is a fee-simple timeshare interest deeded in perpetuity. this ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the hgv club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of club points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the hgv system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to hilton hhonors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 5,000 resorts included in the rci timeshare vacation exchange network. in addition, we operate the hilton club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the hilton new york, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the hgv club. as of december 31, 2013 , hgv managed a global system of 42 resorts and the hgv club and the hilton club had more than 212,000 members in total. competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded owner, operator, manager and franchisor of hotels makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. 9 our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, fairmont raffles hotels international, hong kong and shanghai hotels, limited, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, m venpick hotels and resorts, starwood hotels &amp; resorts worldwide and wyndham worldwide corporation. in the timeshare business, we compete with other hotel and resort timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use and opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards. in addition, we compete based on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as with national and independent timeshare resale companies and owners reselling existing timeshare intervals, which could reduce demand or prices for sales of new timeshare intervals. our competitors in the timeshare space include hyatt residence club, marriott vacations worldwide corp., starwood vacation ownership and wyndham vacation resorts. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters, with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result, in an environment of declining revenues the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. the vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ 10 third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in 91 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws, tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. in addition to our hotel accommodations, we operate a number of laundry facilities located in certain areas where we have multiple properties. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of wastes that we generate, including at locations where such wastes have been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination, or pursuant to our management or franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and operated properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. insurance we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers' compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned hotels. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks. these policies provide coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insured retentions or deductibles. our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners or, if not participating, must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. non-u.s. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. all other insurance programs purchased by hotel owners must meet our requirements. in addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of our hotels. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1946 when our subsidiary hilton hotels corporation, later renamed hilton worldwide, inc., was incorporated in delaware. 11 employees as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 152,000 people were employed at our managed, owned, leased, timeshare and corporate locations. there were an additional estimated 162,000 individuals working at our franchised locations that we do not employ or supervise. as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 26 percent of our employees globally (or 29 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks relating to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including energy, food, compensation, benefits and insurance; increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in tax and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects, which in the case of our managed and franchised hotels and timeshare properties controlled by homeowner associations are generally not within our control; 12 the quality of services provided by franchisees; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture agreements; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or timeshare resorts in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services (including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services) and vacation ownership services and products; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality services and timeshare products, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at properties that we manage, franchise, own, lease or develop, as well as demand for timeshare properties. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; conditions which negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) and h1n1 (swine flu); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; cyclical over-building in the hotel and timeshare industries; and 13 organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned properties, limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties, and reducing overall demand for timeshare intervals. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels and timeshare properties decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, the general economy. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full-service and focused-service and timeshare properties, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators and independent timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively. competition for management and franchise agreements we compete to enter into management and franchise agreements. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. 14 competition for sales of timeshare properties we compete with other timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use, opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards as well as brand name recognition and reputation. our ability to attract and retain purchasers of timeshare intervals depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our timeshare offerings from those offered by others. if we are unable to do so, our ability to compete effectively for sales of timeshare intervals could be adversely affected. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us may indirectly depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. such dependence makes our business susceptible to risks regarding brand obsolescence and to reputational damage. if our brands become obsolete or are viewed as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and further we may be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. in addition, many factors can negatively affect the reputation of any individual brand, or the overall brand of our company. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events can have a substantial negative effect on our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could have a resulting negative effect on the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. we could also face legal claims related to these events, along with adverse publicity resulting from such litigation. if the perceived quality of our brands declines, or if our reputation is damaged, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. if we are unable to maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise agreements, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and on our ability to renew existing, and enter into new, management and franchise agreements. the management and franchise contracts we enter into with third-party owners are typically long-term arrangements, but may allow the hotel owner to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, including in certain cases, the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, any negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise agreements, and enter into new agreements on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. the ability to grow our management and franchise business is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management and franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised branded hotels is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, the availability of financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. other limitations that may be imposed by market factors include projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise agreements, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure. any inability by us or our third-party owners to manage these factors effectively could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. 15 if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of the properties owned by our third-party property owners are pledged as collateral for mortgage loans entered into when such properties were purchased or refinanced by them. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. any such repossessions could result in the termination of our management and franchise agreements or eliminate revenues and cash flows from such property, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans with respect to existing hotels, as well as result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline. if third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise agreements require third-party property owners to comply with standards that are essential to maintaining the quality and reputation of our branded hotel properties. this includes requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements and team members over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with such standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish, and this could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards and meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these relationships. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise agreements require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. at any given time, we may be in disputes with one or more of our hotel owners. any such dispute could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third-party. an adverse result in any of these proceedings could materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. in the event of any such termination, our fees from such properties would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. we are exposed to the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate, which could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. we own or lease a substantial amount of real property as one of our three business segments. real estate ownership and leasing is subject to various risks that may or may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located losing value; differences in potential civil liability between owners and operators for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; 16 risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned properties because we, as the owner, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive, which could reduce revenues or impair our ability to compete effectively. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed more than a century ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. while we have budgeted for replacements and repairs to furniture, fixtures and hotel equipment at our properties there can be no assurance that these replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials) that may increase project costs; obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements, including certain of our iconic and most profitable properties. if a substantial portion of any such properties were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we share control in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of our joint venture assets. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the ventures. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the 17 approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third-party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event such co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of such obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed under such obligations. preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our return on these investments. the timeshare business is subject to extensive regulation and failure to comply with such regulation may have an adverse effect on our business. we develop, manage, market and sell timeshare intervals. certain of these activities are subject to extensive state regulation in both the state in which the timeshare property is located and the states in which the timeshare property is marketed and sold. federal regulation of certain marketing practices also applies. in addition, we provide financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals and we also service the resulting loans. this practice subjects us to various federal and state regulations, including those which require disclosure to borrowers regarding the terms of their loans as well as settlement, servicing and collection of loans. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state, and local laws in connection with our timeshare business, we may not be able to offer timeshare intervals or associated financing in certain areas, and as a result, the timeshare business could suffer a decline in revenues. a decline in timeshare interval inventory or our failure to enter into and maintain timeshare management agreements may have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition to timeshare interval inventory from our owned timeshare properties, we source inventory through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. if we fail to develop timeshare properties or are unsuccessful in entering into new agreements with third-party developers, we may experience a decline in timeshare interval inventory available to be sold by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. in addition, a decline in timeshare interval inventory could result in both a decrease of financing revenues that are generated from purchasers of timeshare intervals and fee revenues that are generated by providing management services to the timeshare properties. if purchasers default on the loans that we provide to finance their purchases of timeshare intervals, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. providing secured financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals subjects us to the risk of purchaser default. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately $994 million of timeshare financing receivables outstanding. if a purchaser defaults under the financing that we provide, we could be forced to write off the loan and reclaim ownership of the timeshare interval through foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure. if the timeshare interval has declined in value, we may incur impairment losses that reduce our profits. in addition, we may be unable to resell the property in a timely manner or at the same price, or at all. also, if a purchaser of a timeshare interval defaults on the related loan during the early part of the amortization period, we may not have recovered the marketing, selling and general and administrative costs associated with the sale of that timeshare interval. if we are unable to recover any of the principal amount of the loan from a defaulting purchaser, or if the allowances for losses from such defaults are inadequate, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. 18 some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2013 , we had a total of 1,123 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, obtaining governmental and regulatory approvals and adequate financing. as a result, our entire development pipeline may not develop into new hotels. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have launched several new brand concepts over the last few years. we opened our first home2 suites by hilton hotel in 2011, launched the eforea: spa at hilton brand in 2010 and opened the first herb n' kitchen restaurant in 2013. we may continue to build our portfolio of branded hotel products and non-hotel branded concepts by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states in recent years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brands will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in developing or expanding such brands and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton hhonors customer loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. in addition, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility, and any loss or damage to the facility could result in operational disruption and data loss. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide and the provision of information technology and business process services. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce 19 fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. for example, in 2011 we were notified by epsilon, our database marketing vendor, that we were among a group of companies served by epsilon that were affected by a data breach that resulted in an unauthorized third party gaining access to epsilon's files that included names and e-mails of certain of our customers. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has increased in recent years. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. any such security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for various business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services, and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. if we fail to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely affected. in addition, states and the federal government have recently enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business and, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or we fail to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. 20 we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may not be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisitions or investments also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we may also divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon a sale of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally which govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu member states' implementation of proposed privacy regulation, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests is booked through internet travel intermediaries. we contract with such intermediaries and pay them various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. if such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. although we have established agreements with many of these intermediaries that limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites. in addition, in general, internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual consumers or "transient" business rather than group and convention business. however, hospitality intermediaries have recently grown their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels, and it could also increase our cost of sales for group and convention business. recent class action litigation against several online travel intermediaries and lodging companies, including hilton, challenges the legality under certain antitrust laws of certain provisions in contracts and alleged practices with third-party intermediaries. while we are vigorously defending the litigation, and believe the contract provisions are lawful, the courts will 21 ultimately determine this issue. our fees and expenses associated with this litigation, even if we ultimately prevail, could be material. any adverse outcome could require us to alter our business arrangements with these intermediaries, and consequently could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online or by telephone to our call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton hhonors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton hhonors guest loyalty and rewards program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise agreements. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the guest's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton hhonors arranges with third-party service providers such as airlines and rail companies to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hhonors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 91 countries around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 25 percent and 27 percent of our revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the effect of disruptions caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; 22 uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues from and the market value of our properties located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires companies whose securities are listed in the u.s. to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies' transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations. given the nature of our business, it is possible that hotels we own or manage in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm, and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, team members and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require companies subject to sec reporting obligations under section 13 of the exchange act to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates during the period covered by the relevant periodic report. in some cases, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions even if they would otherwise be permissible under u.s. law. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference herein. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, it includes any entity controlled by us as well as any person or entity that controls us or is under common control with us. because we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of blackstone, affiliates of blackstone may also be considered our affiliates. other affiliates of blackstone have in the past and may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra. disclosure of such activities, even if such activities are permissible under applicable law, and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative impact on our results of operations. 23 the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned, leased and joint venture hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of team members. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned, leased and joint venture hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 26 percent) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 17 percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability, or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage, and engage employees. our managed, owned, leased and joint venture hotels are staffed by approximately 152,000 team members around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees, our ability to manage and staff the managed, owned, leased and joint venture hotels could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have over 4,700 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services. at any given time, we also have a number of pending applications to register trademarks and other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or that the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, 24 could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties. such rights include the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use such intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; divert management's attention and resources; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce certain of our exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. however, these hedging agreements 25 may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses vary, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or which may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they can be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism insurance program to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. on december 26, 2007, the terrorism insurance program was extended by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007 through december 31, 2014 ("tripra"). we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if tripra is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2014, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. certain of our buildings are also highly profitable properties to our business. in addition to the effects noted above, the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of these properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results 26 of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we record tax expense based in part on our estimates of expected future tax rates, reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions and valuation allowances related to certain net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2006 and october 24, 2007 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton hhonors guest loyalty and reward program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $696 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. see note 19 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. for example, in 2013, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), issued a revised exposure draft outlining proposed changes to current lease accounting in fasb accounting standards codification topic 840, leases . the proposed accounting standards update, if ultimately adopted in its current form, could result in significant changes to current accounting, including the capitalization of leases on the balance sheet that currently are recorded off-balance sheet as operating leases. while this change would not affect the cash flow related to our leased hotels and other leased assets, it could adversely affect our balance sheet and could therefore affect our ability to raise financing from banks or other sources. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. 27 governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing their relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate, or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. for example, the u.s. congress, the u.s. environmental protection agency and some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the potential for changes in the frequency, duration and severity of extreme weather events that may be a result of climate change could lead to significant property damage at our hotels and other assets, affect our ability to obtain insurance coverage in areas that are most vulnerable to such events, such as the coastal resort areas where we operate, and have a negative effect on revenues. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise agreement or negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. under the terms of the settlement, until november 2014 we must: ensure compliance with ada regulations at our owned and joint venture (in which we own more than a 50% interest) properties built after january 26, 1993; require managed or franchised hotels built after january 26, 1993 that enter into a new management or franchise agreement, experience a change in ownership, or renew or extend a management or franchise agreement, to conduct a survey of its facilities and to certify that the hotel complies with the ada; ensure that new hotels constructed in our system are compliant with ada regulations; provide ada training to our team members; improve the accessibility of our websites and reservations system for individuals with disabilities; appoint a national ada compliance officer; and appoint an ada contact on-site at each hotel. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada and our related consent decree, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects which could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 28 casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic conditions, which may limit the amount of disposable income that potential patrons may have for gambling; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including nevada, new jersey, puerto rico and egypt have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2013 , our total indebtedness was approximately $12.7 billion , including $968 million of non-recourse debt, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt and non-recourse debt for the years ending december 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively, were $52 million , $69 million and $622 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; 29 exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indenture that governs our senior notes, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the agreements that govern our commercial mortgage-backed securities loan and the mortgage loan secured by our waldorf astoria new york property, impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after june 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 25% of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.9 to 1.0. our subsidiaries' mortgage-backed loans also require them to maintain certain debt service coverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. 30 as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding two risk factors would increase. risks related to ownership of our common stock our sponsor and its affiliates control us and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future. our sponsor and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 76.4% of our common stock as of february 12, 2014. moreover, under our bylaws and the stockholders' agreement with our sponsor and its affiliates, for so long as our existing owners and their affiliates retain significant ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by our sponsor, whom we refer to as the "sponsor directors." even when our sponsor and its affiliates cease to own shares of our stock representing a majority of the total voting power, for so long as our sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock our sponsor will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, for such period of time, our sponsor will have significant influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. in particular, for so long as our sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, our sponsor will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. our sponsor and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in real estate generally and in the hospitality industry in particular. in the ordinary course of their business activities, our sponsor and its affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our stockholders. for example, our sponsor owns interests in extended stay america, inc. and la quinta hotels, and certain other investments in the hotel industry that compete directly or indirectly with us. in addition, affiliates of our sponsor directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel or timeshare development projects, 31 that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of our sponsor, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. our sponsor also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. in addition, blackstone may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of new york stock exchange ("nyse") rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. affiliates of our sponsor control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. as a result, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of nyse corporate governance standards. under these rules, a "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance standards such as requirements that within one year of the date of nyse listing, a company have: a board that is composed of a majority of "independent directors," as defined under nyse rules; a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we do not have a majority of independent directors on our board. in addition, although we have a fully independent audit committee and have independent director representation on our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees, our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. we intend to continue to utilize these "controlled company" exemptions. accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the nyse corporate governance requirements. we will incur increased costs and become subject to additional regulations and requirements as a public company, which could lower our profits or make it more difficult to run our business. as a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. we also have incurred and will incur costs associated with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the "sarbanes-oxley act"), and related rules implemented by the sec and the nyse. the expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. we expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. these laws and regulations also could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. these laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. if we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. in addition, beginning with our second annual report on form 10-k, we will be required to furnish reports by management and our independent registered public accountants on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. the process of designing, implementing, and testing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation is time consuming, costly and complicated. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act in a timely manner or to assert that our internal control over 32 financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the nyse, the sec or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. we have no current plans to pay any cash dividends. the declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by our senior secured credit facility and our senior notes and may be limited by covenants of other indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. as a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by our pre-ipo investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. after the expiration or earlier waiver or termination of the lock-up periods described below, substantially all of the outstanding shares of our common stock will be available for resale in the public market. registration of the sale of these shares of our common stock would permit their sale into the market immediately. the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. pursuant to a registration rights agreement, we have granted our sponsor and certain management stockholders the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares represented approximately 77.2 percent of our outstanding common stock as of february 12, 2014. these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. in connection with our initial public offering, we, our executive officers, directors and holders of certain of our outstanding shares of common stock immediately prior to our initial public offering, including our sponsor, that collectively owned approximately 77.8 percent of our outstanding common stock as of february 12, 2014, signed lock-up agreements with the underwriters of the initial public offering that, subject to certain customary exceptions, restrict the sale of the shares of our common stock held by them for 180 days following the date of the initial public offering prospectus, subject to extension in the case of an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to us. deutsche bank securities inc. and goldman, sachs &amp; co. may, in their sole discretion, release all or any portion of the shares of common stock subject to lock-up agreements. in addition, former members of hilton global holdings llc ("hgh"), including our sponsor, who received, in the aggregate, approximately 829,481,530 shares of our common stock (or approximately 84.2 percent of our outstanding common stock as of february 12, 2014) from hgh in connection with our initial public offering are prohibited from transferring such shares for six months beginning on their receipt of such shares on the date of the pricing of our initial public offering. one third of the shares they received (approximately 276,493,843 shares) may be transferred between 6 and 12 months following the date of receipt and an additional one third of the shares they receive (approximately 276,493,843 shares) may be transferred between 13 and 18 months after the date of receipt. the transfer restrictions applicable to such holders will lapse after 18 months after the date of receipt. in addition, while transfer restrictions applicable to former members of hgh currently provide for the restrictions described above, these contractual provisions may be waived, modified or amended at any time. as of february 12, 2014, we had granted 19,500 restricted stock units to our independent directors under our 2013 omnibus incentive plan. an aggregate of 79,980,500 shares of common stock were available for future issuance under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan as of february 12, 2014. we have filed a registration statement on form s-8 under the securities 33 act to register shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our 2013 omnibus incentive plan. accordingly, shares registered under such registration statements will be available for sale in the open market. as restrictions on resale end, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. these factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which the parties to our stockholders agreement cease to beneficially own at least 40 percent of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 item 8 financial statements and supplementary data 72 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures 122 item 9a. controls and procedures 122 item 9b. other information 122 part iii 122 item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 122 item 11. executive compensation 122 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 123 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence 123 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 123 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 123 signatures 126 1 part i forward -looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the "securities act") and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "exchange act"). these statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to our expectations regarding the performance of our business, our financial results, our liquidity and capital resources and other non-historical statements. in some cases, you can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "outlook," "believes," "expects," "potential," "continues," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seeks," "approximately," "projects," "predicts," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates" or the negative version of these words or other comparable words. such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. we believe these factors include but are not limited to those described under "part i item 1a. risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "hilton worldwide," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. we refer to the estimated 314,000 individuals working at our owned, leased, managed, franchised, timeshare and corporate locations worldwide as of december 31, 2013 as our "team members." of these team members, approximately 152,000 were directly employed or supervised by us and the remaining team members were employed or supervised by third parties. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these hotels, resorts and rooms, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest and the remaining hotels, resorts and rooms are owned by our third-party owners. investment funds associated with or designated by the blackstone group l.p. and their affiliates, our current majority owners, are referred to herein as "blackstone" or "our sponsor." reference to "adr" or "average daily rate" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of rooms sold in a given period and "revpar" or "revenue per available room" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for further discussion over these financial metrics. item 1. business overview hilton worldwide is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,115 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 678,630 rooms in 91 countries and territories. in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of 10 world-class brands. our flagship full-service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio also includes our luxury hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts and conrad hotels &amp; resorts, our full-service hotel brands, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites hotels, our focused-service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton inn, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. more than 314,000 team members proudly serve in our properties and corporate offices around the world, and we have approximately 40 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors. we operate our business through three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. these complementary business segments enable us to capitalize on our strong brands, global market presence and significant operational scale. through our management and franchise segment, which consists of 3,918 hotels with 610,413 rooms, we manage hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. our ownership 2 segment consists of 155 hotels with 61,670 rooms in which we have an ownership interest or lease. through our timeshare segment, which consists of 42 properties comprising 6,547 units, we market and sell timeshare intervals, operate timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club and provide consumer financing. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which includes 194,572 rooms scheduled to be opened in the future, 99 percent of which are in our management and franchise segment. as of december 31, 2013 , 101,810 rooms, representing 52 percent of our development pipeline, were under construction. the expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong brands and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton hhonors loyalty program, which has approximately 40 million members. satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal initial capital investment, put us in a strong position to further improve our business. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2013 brand (1) segment countries/ territories hotels rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 10 24 10,529 1.6% ritz carlton, four seasons, peninsula, st. regis, mandarin oriental luxury 17 23 7,877 1.2% park hyatt, sofitel, intercontinental, jw marriott, fairmont upper upscale 80 554 196,670 29.0% marriott, sheraton, hyatt, radisson blu, renaissance, westin, sofitel, swissotel, m venpick upscale 32 371 93,054 13.7% sheraton, marriott, crowne plaza, wyndham, radisson, moevenpick, hotel nikko, holiday inn, renaissance upper upscale 5 215 51,367 7.6% renaissance, sheraton, hyatt, residence inn by marriott upscale 19 581 79,878 11.8% courtyard by marriott, holiday inn, hyatt place, novotel, aloft, four points by sheraton upper midscale 15 1,937 190,635 28.1% fairfield inn by marriott, holiday inn express, comfort inn, quality inn, la quinta inns, wyngate by wyndham upscale 3 333 36,778 5.4% residence inn by marriott, hyatt house, staybridge suites, candlewood suites upper midscale 2 27 2,928 0.4% candlewood suites, americinn, towne place suites timeshare 3 42 6,547 1.0% marriott vacation club, starwood vacation ownership, hyatt residence, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes 8 unbranded hotels with 2,367 rooms, representing approximately 0.2% of total rooms. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 24 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties 4 typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with 554 hotels and resorts in 80 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full-service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full-service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree is united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and a warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. embassy suites hotels : embassy suites are our upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive value at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale hotel brand that strives to ensure today's busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. from the serta perfect sleeper bed, to complimentary internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, hilton garden inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys. hampton inn : hampton inn hotels are our moderately priced, upper midscale hotels with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel room accommodations and apartment style suites within one property. across our over 1,900 hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the hampton satisfaction guarantee. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton are our upscale, extended-stay hotels that feature residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. the brand provides the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton, our newest brand, are upper midscale hotels that provide a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. the hotel offers a complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations ("hgv") is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each club property provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our customer loyalty program hilton hhonors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of 10 brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,000 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other rewards. members also can earn points with over 140 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 40 million members. our hilton hhonors members represented approximately 50 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues of over $12 billion during the year ended december 31, 2013 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton hhonors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton hhonors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. 5 our businesses we operate our business across three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 24 : "business segments" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 as of december 31, 2013 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total hotels rooms hotels rooms hotels rooms hotels rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 2 1,601 12 5,691 14 7,292 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 248 1 984 2 1,232 europe 1 370 3 672 4 1,042 mea 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 1 260 1 260 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,335 4 1,335 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 294 1 294 europe 1 191 2 741 3 932 mea 1 617 2 641 3 1,258 asia pacific 11 3,422 1 636 12 4,058 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 23 21,096 42 24,939 181 54,083 246 100,118 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 1,836 21 7,339 18 5,487 42 14,662 europe 74 19,014 56 15,798 21 5,309 151 40,121 mea 6 2,279 43 13,411 1 410 50 16,100 asia pacific 8 3,957 49 18,738 8 2,974 65 25,669 doubletree by hilton u.s. 12 4,456 28 8,204 237 58,329 277 70,989 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 637 11 2,063 14 2,700 europe 11 3,474 34 5,523 45 8,997 mea 4 842 3 431 7 1,273 asia pacific 26 8,130 2 965 28 9,095 embassy suites hotels u.s. 18 4,561 39 10,323 151 34,740 208 49,624 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 473 5 1,270 7 1,743 hilton garden inn u.s. 2 290 5 635 514 69,607 521 70,532 americas (excluding u.s.) 5 685 23 3,575 28 4,260 europe 15 2,620 12 1,751 27 4,371 mea 1 180 1 180 asia pacific 4 535 4 535 hampton inn u.s. 1 130 50 6,238 1,803 173,677 1,854 180,045 americas (excluding u.s.) 6 729 53 6,536 59 7,265 europe 4 492 19 2,761 23 3,253 asia pacific 1 72 1 72 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 38 4,342 284 31,266 322 35,608 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 102 10 1,068 11 1,170 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 26 2,831 26 2,831 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 97 1 97 other 3 1,272 5 1,095 8 2,367 lodging 155 61,670 498 143,771 3,420 466,642 4,073 672,083 hilton grand vacations 42 6,547 42 6,547 total 155 61,670 540 150,318 3,420 466,642 4,115 678,630 ____________ (1) includes hotels owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. 7 management and franchise through our management and franchise segment we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel and timeshare management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of each hotel's gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. as of december 31, 2013 , we managed 498 hotels with 143,771 rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels. the initial terms of our management agreements for full-service hotels typically are 20 years. in certain cases where we have entered into a franchise agreement as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full-service hotels. typically these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. in addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, we provide management services for 42 timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and 155 owned, leased and joint venture hotels, from which we recognize management fee revenues. franchising we franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. we do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained and consult with franchisees concerning certain aspects of hotel operations. we approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. in some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system. as of december 31, 2013 , there were 3,420 franchised hotels with 466,642 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton hhonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. our franchise agreements typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new construction and approximately 10 to 20 years for properties that are converted from other brands. at the expiration of the initial term, we may relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. 8 ownership we are among the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties includes a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as new york city, london, san francisco, chicago, o paolo, sydney and tokyo. the portfolio includes iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including the waldorf astoria new york, the hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. in recent years, we have expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners. we have focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we have developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property, and at many of our hotels we have renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. at certain of our hotels, we are evaluating options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use. timeshare our timeshare segment generates revenue from three primary sources: timeshare sales we market and sell timeshare interests owned by hilton and third parties. we also source timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. this allows us to sell timeshare units on behalf of third-party developers in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property. resort operations we manage the hgv club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. we generate rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under our hgv club program. we also earn revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties. financing we provide consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans. hgv's primary product is a fee-simple timeshare interest deeded in perpetuity. this ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the hgv club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of club points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the hgv system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to hilton hhonors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 5,000 resorts included in the rci timeshare vacation exchange network. in addition, we operate the hilton club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the hilton new york, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the hgv club. as of december 31, 2013 , hgv managed a global system of 42 resorts and the hgv club and the hilton club had more than 212,000 members in total. competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded owner, operator, manager and franchisor of hotels makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. 9 our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, fairmont raffles hotels international, hong kong and shanghai hotels, limited, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, m venpick hotels and resorts, starwood hotels &amp; resorts worldwide and wyndham worldwide corporation. in the timeshare business, we compete with other hotel and resort timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use and opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards. in addition, we compete based on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as with national and independent timeshare resale companies and owners reselling existing timeshare intervals, which could reduce demand or prices for sales of new timeshare intervals. our competitors in the timeshare space include hyatt residence club, marriott vacations worldwide corp., starwood vacation ownership and wyndham vacation resorts. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters, with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result, in an environment of declining revenues the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. the vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ 10 third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in 91 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws, tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. in addition to our hotel accommodations, we operate a number of laundry facilities located in certain areas where we have multiple properties. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of wastes that we generate, including at locations where such wastes have been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination, or pursuant to our management or franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and operated properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. insurance we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers' compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned hotels. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks. these policies provide coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insured retentions or deductibles. our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners or, if not participating, must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. non-u.s. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. all other insurance programs purchased by hotel owners must meet our requirements. in addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of our hotels. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1946 when our subsidiary hilton hotels corporation, later renamed hilton worldwide, inc., was incorporated in delaware. 11 employees as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 152,000 people were employed at our managed, owned, leased, timeshare and corporate locations. there were an additional estimated 162,000 individuals working at our franchised locations that we do not employ or supervise. as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 26 percent of our employees globally (or 29 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks relating to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including energy, food, compensation, benefits and insurance; increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in tax and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects, which in the case of our managed and franchised hotels and timeshare properties controlled by homeowner associations are generally not within our control; 12 the quality of services provided by franchisees; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture agreements; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or timeshare resorts in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services (including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services) and vacation ownership services and products; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality services and timeshare products, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at properties that we manage, franchise, own, lease or develop, as well as demand for timeshare properties. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; conditions which negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) and h1n1 (swine flu); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; cyclical over-building in the hotel and timeshare industries; and 13 organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned properties, limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties, and reducing overall demand for timeshare intervals. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels and timeshare properties decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, the general economy. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full-service and focused-service and timeshare properties, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators and independent timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively. competition for management and franchise agreements we compete to enter into management and franchise agreements. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. 14 competition for sales of timeshare properties we compete with other timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use, opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards as well as brand name recognition and reputation. our ability to attract and retain purchasers of timeshare intervals depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our timeshare offerings from those offered by others. if we are unable to do so, our ability to compete effectively for sales of timeshare intervals could be adversely affected. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us may indirectly depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. such dependence makes our business susceptible to risks regarding brand obsolescence and to reputational damage. if our brands become obsolete or are viewed as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and further we may be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. in addition, many factors can negatively affect the reputation of any individual brand, or the overall brand of our company. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events can have a substantial negative effect on our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could have a resulting negative effect on the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. we could also face legal claims related to these events, along with adverse publicity resulting from such litigation. if the perceived quality of our brands declines, or if our reputation is damaged, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. if we are unable to maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise agreements, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and on our ability to renew existing, and enter into new, management and franchise agreements. the management and franchise contracts we enter into with third-party owners are typically long-term arrangements, but may allow the hotel owner to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, including in certain cases, the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, any negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise agreements, and enter into new agreements on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. the ability to grow our management and franchise business is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments. our ability to sustain continued growth through management and franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised branded hotels is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. these include site availability, the availability of financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. other limitations that may be imposed by market factors include projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise agreements, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure. any inability by us or our third-party owners to manage these factors effectively could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. 15 if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of the properties owned by our third-party property owners are pledged as collateral for mortgage loans entered into when such properties were purchased or refinanced by them. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. any such repossessions could result in the termination of our management and franchise agreements or eliminate revenues and cash flows from such property, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans with respect to existing hotels, as well as result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline. if third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise agreements require third-party property owners to comply with standards that are essential to maintaining the quality and reputation of our branded hotel properties. this includes requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements and team members over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with such standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish, and this could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards and meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these relationships. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise agreements require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. at any given time, we may be in disputes with one or more of our hotel owners. any such dispute could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third-party. an adverse result in any of these proceedings could materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. in the event of any such termination, our fees from such properties would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. we are exposed to the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate, which could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. we own or lease a substantial amount of real property as one of our three business segments. real estate ownership and leasing is subject to various risks that may or may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located losing value; differences in potential civil liability between owners and operators for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; 16 risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned properties because we, as the owner, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive, which could reduce revenues or impair our ability to compete effectively. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed more than a century ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. while we have budgeted for replacements and repairs to furniture, fixtures and hotel equipment at our properties there can be no assurance that these replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials) that may increase project costs; obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements, including certain of our iconic and most profitable properties. if a substantial portion of any such properties were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we share control in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of our joint venture assets. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the ventures. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the 17 approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third-party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event such co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of such obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed under such obligations. preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our return on these investments. the timeshare business is subject to extensive regulation and failure to comply with such regulation may have an adverse effect on our business. we develop, manage, market and sell timeshare intervals. certain of these activities are subject to extensive state regulation in both the state in which the timeshare property is located and the states in which the timeshare property is marketed and sold. federal regulation of certain marketing practices also applies. in addition, we provide financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals and we also service the resulting loans. this practice subjects us to various federal and state regulations, including those which require disclosure to borrowers regarding the terms of their loans as well as settlement, servicing and collection of loans. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state, and local laws in connection with our timeshare business, we may not be able to offer timeshare intervals or associated financing in certain areas, and as a result, the timeshare business could suffer a decline in revenues. a decline in timeshare interval inventory or our failure to enter into and maintain timeshare management agreements may have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition to timeshare interval inventory from our owned timeshare properties, we source inventory through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. if we fail to develop timeshare properties or are unsuccessful in entering into new agreements with third-party developers, we may experience a decline in timeshare interval inventory available to be sold by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. in addition, a decline in timeshare interval inventory could result in both a decrease of financing revenues that are generated from purchasers of timeshare intervals and fee revenues that are generated by providing management services to the timeshare properties. if purchasers default on the loans that we provide to finance their purchases of timeshare intervals, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. providing secured financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals subjects us to the risk of purchaser default. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately $994 million of timeshare financing receivables outstanding. if a purchaser defaults under the financing that we provide, we could be forced to write off the loan and reclaim ownership of the timeshare interval through foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure. if the timeshare interval has declined in value, we may incur impairment losses that reduce our profits. in addition, we may be unable to resell the property in a timely manner or at the same price, or at all. also, if a purchaser of a timeshare interval defaults on the related loan during the early part of the amortization period, we may not have recovered the marketing, selling and general and administrative costs associated with the sale of that timeshare interval. if we are unable to recover any of the principal amount of the loan from a defaulting purchaser, or if the allowances for losses from such defaults are inadequate, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. 18 some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2013 , we had a total of 1,123 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, obtaining governmental and regulatory approvals and adequate financing. as a result, our entire development pipeline may not develop into new hotels. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have launched several new brand concepts over the last few years. we opened our first home2 suites by hilton hotel in 2011, launched the eforea: spa at hilton brand in 2010 and opened the first herb n' kitchen restaurant in 2013. we may continue to build our portfolio of branded hotel products and non-hotel branded concepts by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states in recent years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brands will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in developing or expanding such brands and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton hhonors customer loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. in addition, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility, and any loss or damage to the facility could result in operational disruption and data loss. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide and the provision of information technology and business process services. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce 19 fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. for example, in 2011 we were notified by epsilon, our database marketing vendor, that we were among a group of companies served by epsilon that were affected by a data breach that resulted in an unauthorized third party gaining access to epsilon's files that included names and e-mails of certain of our customers. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has increased in recent years. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. any such security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for various business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services, and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. if we fail to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely affected. in addition, states and the federal government have recently enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business and, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or we fail to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. 20 we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may not be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisitions or investments also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we may also divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon a sale of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally which govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu member states' implementation of proposed privacy regulation, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests is booked through internet travel intermediaries. we contract with such intermediaries and pay them various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. if such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. although we have established agreements with many of these intermediaries that limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites. in addition, in general, internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual consumers or "transient" business rather than group and convention business. however, hospitality intermediaries have recently grown their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels, and it could also increase our cost of sales for group and convention business. recent class action litigation against several online travel intermediaries and lodging companies, including hilton, challenges the legality under certain antitrust laws of certain provisions in contracts and alleged practices with third-party intermediaries. while we are vigorously defending the litigation, and believe the contract provisions are lawful, the courts will 21 ultimately determine this issue. our fees and expenses associated with this litigation, even if we ultimately prevail, could be material. any adverse outcome could require us to alter our business arrangements with these intermediaries, and consequently could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online or by telephone to our call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton hhonors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton hhonors guest loyalty and rewards program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise agreements. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the guest's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton hhonors arranges with third-party service providers such as airlines and rail companies to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hhonors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 91 countries around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 25 percent and 27 percent of our revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the effect of disruptions caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; 22 uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues from and the market value of our properties located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires companies whose securities are listed in the u.s. to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies' transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations. given the nature of our business, it is possible that hotels we own or manage in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm, and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, team members and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require companies subject to sec reporting obligations under section 13 of the exchange act to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates during the period covered by the relevant periodic report. in some cases, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions even if they would otherwise be permissible under u.s. law. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference herein. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, it includes any entity controlled by us as well as any person or entity that controls us or is under common control with us. because we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of blackstone, affiliates of blackstone may also be considered our affiliates. other affiliates of blackstone have in the past and may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra. disclosure of such activities, even if such activities are permissible under applicable law, and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative impact on our results of operations. 23 the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned, leased and joint venture hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of team members. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned, leased and joint venture hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 26 percent) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 17 percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability, or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage, and engage employees. our managed, owned, leased and joint venture hotels are staffed by approximately 152,000 team members around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees, our ability to manage and staff the managed, owned, leased and joint venture hotels could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have over 4,700 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services. at any given time, we also have a number of pending applications to register trademarks and other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or that the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, 24 could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties. such rights include the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use such intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; divert management's attention and resources; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce certain of our exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. however, these hedging agreements 25 may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses vary, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or which may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they can be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism insurance program to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. on december 26, 2007, the terrorism insurance program was extended by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007 through december 31, 2014 ("tripra"). we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if tripra is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2014, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. certain of our buildings are also highly profitable properties to our business. in addition to the effects noted above, the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of these properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results 26 of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we record tax expense based in part on our estimates of expected future tax rates, reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions and valuation allowances related to certain net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2006 and october 24, 2007 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton hhonors guest loyalty and reward program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $696 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. see note 19 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. for example, in 2013, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), issued a revised exposure draft outlining proposed changes to current lease accounting in fasb accounting standards codification topic 840, leases . the proposed accounting standards update, if ultimately adopted in its current form, could result in significant changes to current accounting, including the capitalization of leases on the balance sheet that currently are recorded off-balance sheet as operating leases. while this change would not affect the cash flow related to our leased hotels and other leased assets, it could adversely affect our balance sheet and could therefore affect our ability to raise financing from banks or other sources. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. 27 governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing their relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate, or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. for example, the u.s. congress, the u.s. environmental protection agency and some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the potential for changes in the frequency, duration and severity of extreme weather events that may be a result of climate change could lead to significant property damage at our hotels and other assets, affect our ability to obtain insurance coverage in areas that are most vulnerable to such events, such as the coastal resort areas where we operate, and have a negative effect on revenues. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise agreement or negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. under the terms of the settlement, until november 2014 we must: ensure compliance with ada regulations at our owned and joint venture (in which we own more than a 50% interest) properties built after january 26, 1993; require managed or franchised hotels built after january 26, 1993 that enter into a new management or franchise agreement, experience a change in ownership, or renew or extend a management or franchise agreement, to conduct a survey of its facilities and to certify that the hotel complies with the ada; ensure that new hotels constructed in our system are compliant with ada regulations; provide ada training to our team members; improve the accessibility of our websites and reservations system for individuals with disabilities; appoint a national ada compliance officer; and appoint an ada contact on-site at each hotel. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada and our related consent decree, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects which could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 28 casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic conditions, which may limit the amount of disposable income that potential patrons may have for gambling; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including nevada, new jersey, puerto rico and egypt have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2013 , our total indebtedness was approximately $12.7 billion , including $968 million of non-recourse debt, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt and non-recourse debt for the years ending december 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively, were $52 million , $69 million and $622 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; 29 exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indenture that governs our senior notes, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the agreements that govern our commercial mortgage-backed securities loan and the mortgage loan secured by our waldorf astoria new york property, impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after june 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 25% of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.9 to 1.0. our subsidiaries' mortgage-backed loans also require them to maintain certain debt service coverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. 30 as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding two risk factors would increase. risks related to ownership of our common stock our sponsor and its affiliates control us and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future. our sponsor and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 76.4% of our common stock as of february 12, 2014. moreover, under our bylaws and the stockholders' agreement with our sponsor and its affiliates, for so long as our existing owners and their affiliates retain significant ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by our sponsor, whom we refer to as the "sponsor directors." even when our sponsor and its affiliates cease to own shares of our stock representing a majority of the total voting power, for so long as our sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock our sponsor will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, for such period of time, our sponsor will have significant influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. in particular, for so long as our sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, our sponsor will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. our sponsor and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in real estate generally and in the hospitality industry in particular. in the ordinary course of their business activities, our sponsor and its affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our stockholders. for example, our sponsor owns interests in extended stay america, inc. and la quinta hotels, and certain other investments in the hotel industry that compete directly or indirectly with us. in addition, affiliates of our sponsor directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel or timeshare development projects, 31 that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of our sponsor, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. our sponsor also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. in addition, blackstone may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of new york stock exchange ("nyse") rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. affiliates of our sponsor control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. as a result, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of nyse corporate governance standards. under these rules, a "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance standards such as requirements that within one year of the date of nyse listing, a company have: a board that is composed of a majority of "independent directors," as defined under nyse rules; a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we do not have a majority of independent directors on our board. in addition, although we have a fully independent audit committee and have independent director representation on our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees, our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. we intend to continue to utilize these "controlled company" exemptions. accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the nyse corporate governance requirements. we will incur increased costs and become subject to additional regulations and requirements as a public company, which could lower our profits or make it more difficult to run our business. as a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. we also have incurred and will incur costs associated with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the "sarbanes-oxley act"), and related rules implemented by the sec and the nyse. the expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. we expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. these laws and regulations also could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. these laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. if we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. as a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. in addition, beginning with our second annual report on form 10-k, we will be required to furnish reports by management and our independent registered public accountants on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. the process of designing, implementing, and testing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation is time consuming, costly and complicated. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act in a timely manner or to assert that our internal control over 32 financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the nyse, the sec or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. we have no current plans to pay any cash dividends. the declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by our senior secured credit facility and our senior notes and may be limited by covenants of other indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. as a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by our pre-ipo investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. after the expiration or earlier waiver or termination of the lock-up periods described below, substantially all of the outstanding shares of our common stock will be available for resale in the public market. registration of the sale of these shares of our common stock would permit their sale into the market immediately. the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. pursuant to a registration rights agreement, we have granted our sponsor and certain management stockholders the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares represented approximately 77.2 percent of our outstanding common stock as of february 12, 2014. these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. in connection with our initial public offering, we, our executive officers, directors and holders of certain of our outstanding shares of common stock immediately prior to our initial public offering, including our sponsor, that collectively owned approximately 77.8 percent of our outstanding common stock as of february 12, 2014, signed lock-up agreements with the underwriters of the initial public offering that, subject to certain customary exceptions, restrict the sale of the shares of our common stock held by them for 180 days following the date of the initial public offering prospectus, subject to extension in the case of an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to us. deutsche bank securities inc. and goldman, sachs &amp; co. may, in their sole discretion, release all or any portion of the shares of common stock subject to lock-up agreements. in addition, former members of hilton global holdings llc ("hgh"), including our sponsor, who received, in the aggregate, approximately 829,481,530 shares of our common stock (or approximately 84.2 percent of our outstanding common stock as of february 12, 2014) from hgh in connection with our initial public offering are prohibited from transferring such shares for six months beginning on their receipt of such shares on the date of the pricing of our initial public offering. one third of the shares they received (approximately 276,493,843 shares) may be transferred between 6 and 12 months following the date of receipt and an additional one third of the shares they receive (approximately 276,493,843 shares) may be transferred between 13 and 18 months after the date of receipt. the transfer restrictions applicable to such holders will lapse after 18 months after the date of receipt. in addition, while transfer restrictions applicable to former members of hgh currently provide for the restrictions described above, these contractual provisions may be waived, modified or amended at any time. as of february 12, 2014, we had granted 19,500 restricted stock units to our independent directors under our 2013 omnibus incentive plan. an aggregate of 79,980,500 shares of common stock were available for future issuance under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan as of february 12, 2014. we have filed a registration statement on form s-8 under the securities 33 act to register shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our 2013 omnibus incentive plan. accordingly, shares registered under such registration statements will be available for sale in the open market. as restrictions on resale end, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. these factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which the parties to our stockholders agreement cease to beneficially own at least 40 percent of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties hotel properties owned or controlled hotels as of december 31, 2013 , we owned a majority or controlling financial interest in the following 49 hotels, representing 27,173 rooms. 34 property location rooms ownership waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts the waldorf astoria new york new york, ny, usa 1,413 100% hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton hawaiian village beach resort &amp; spa honolulu, hi, usa 2,860 100% hilton new york new york, ny, usa 1,981 100% hilton san francisco union square san francisco, ca, usa 1,908 100% hilton new orleans riverside new orleans, la, usa 1,622 100% hilton chicago chicago, il, usa 1,544 100% hilton waikoloa village waikoloa, hi, usa 1,241 100% caribe hilton san juan, puerto rico 915 100% hilton chicago o'hare airport chicago, il, usa 860 100% hilton orlando lake buena vista orlando, fl, usa 814 100% hilton boston logan airport boston, ma, usa 599 100% hilton sydney sydney, australia 579 100% pointe hilton squaw peak resort phoenix, az, usa 563 100% hilton miami airport miami, fl, usa 508 100% hilton atlanta airport atlanta, ga, usa 507 100% hilton o paulo morumbi o paulo, brazil 503 100% hilton mclean tysons corner mclean, va, usa 458 100% hilton seattle airport &amp; conference center seattle, wa, usa 396 100% hilton oakland airport oakland, ca, usa 359 100% hilton paris orly airport paris, france 340 100% hilton durban durban, south africa 327 100% hilton new orleans airport kenner, la, usa 317 100% hilton short hills short hills, nj, usa 304 100% hilton amsterdam airport schiphol schiphol, netherlands 277 100% hilton blackpool blackpool, united kingdom 274 100% hilton rotterdam rotterdam, netherlands 254 100% hilton suites chicago/oak brook oakbrook terrace, il, usa 211 100% hilton belfast belfast, united kingdom 198 100% hilton london islington london, united kingdom 190 100% hilton edinburgh grosvenor edinburgh, united kingdom 184 100% hilton coylumbridge coylumbridge, united kingdom 175 100% hilton bath city bath, united kingdom 173 100% hilton nuremberg nuremberg, germany 152 100% hilton milton keynes milton keynes, united kingdom 138 100% hilton templepatrick hotel &amp; country club templepatrick, united kingdom 129 100% hilton sheffield sheffield, united kingdom 128 100% hilton bradford (1) bradford, united kingdom 121 100% hilton portsmouth portsmouth, united kingdom 119 100% doubletree by hilton doubletree hotel crystal city national airport arlington, va, usa 631 100% doubletree hotel san jose san jose, ca, usa 505 100% doubletree hotel ontario airport ontario, ca, usa 482 67% doubletree spokane city center spokane, wa, usa 375 10% fess parker's doubletree resort santa barbara santa barbara, ca, usa 360 50% embassy suites hotels embassy suites washington d.c. washington, d.c., usa 318 100% embassy suites austin downtown/town lake austin, tx, usa 259 100% embassy suites phoenix airport at 24th street phoenix, az, usa 182 100% hilton garden inn hilton garden inn lax/el segundo el segundo, ca, usa 162 100% hilton garden inn chicago/oak brook oakbrook terrace, il, usa 128 100% hampton inn hampton inn &amp; suites memphis shady grove memphis, tn, usa 130 100% ____________ (1) i n february 2014, we entered into an agreement to sell this property with an expected closing date in the second quarter of 2014. 35 joint venture hotels as of december 31, 2013 , we had a minority or noncontrolling financial interest in and operated the following 31 properties, representing 11,839 rooms. we have a right of first refusal to purchase additional equity interests in certain of these joint ventures. we manage each of the partially owned hotels for the entity owning the hotel. property location rooms ownership waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts the waldorf astoria chicago chicago, il, usa 188 15% conrad hotels &amp; resorts conrad cairo cairo, egypt 617 10% conrad dublin dublin, ireland 191 25% hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton orlando orange county convention center orlando, fl, usa 1,417 20% hilton san diego bayfront san diego, ca, usa 1,190 25% hilton tokyo bay urayasu-shi, japan 818 24% hilton berlin berlin, germany 601 40% capital hilton washington, d.c., usa 544 25% hilton nagoya nagoya, japan 448 24% hilton la jolla torrey pines la jolla, ca, usa 394 25% hilton mauritius resort &amp; spa flic-en-flac, mauritius 193 20% hilton imperial dubrovnik dubrovnik, croatia 147 18% doubletree by hilton doubletree las vegas airport las vegas, nv, usa 190 50% doubletree guest suites austin austin, tx, usa 188 10% doubletree hotel missoula/edgewater missoula, mt, usa 171 50% embassy suites hotels embassy suites atlanta at centennial olympic park atlanta, ga, usa 321 36% embassy suites alexandria old town alexandria, va, usa 288 50% embassy suites parsippany parsippany, nj, usa 274 50% embassy suites kansas city plaza kansas city, mo, usa 266 50% embassy suites chicago lombard/oak brook lombard, il, usa 262 50% embassy suites secaucus meadowlands secaucus, nj, usa 261 50% embassy suites san antonio international airport san antonio, tx, usa 261 50% embassy suites austin central austin, tx, usa 260 50% embassy suites baltimore at bwi airport linthicum, md, usa 251 10% embassy suites sacramento riverfront promenade sacramento, ca, usa 242 25% embassy suites atlanta perimeter center atlanta, ga, usa 241 50% embassy suites san rafael marin county san rafael, ca, usa 235 50% embassy suites raleigh crabtree raleigh, nc, usa 225 50% embassy suites san antonio nw i-10 san antonio, tx, usa 216 50% embassy suites kansas city overland park overland park, ks, usa 199 50% other myrtle beach kingston plantation (condo management company) myrtle beach, sc, usa 740 50% 36 leased hotels as of december 31, 2013 , we leased the following 75 hotels, representing 22,658 rooms. property location rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts waldorf astoria rome cavalieri rome, italy 370 hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton tokyo (1) (shinjuku-ku) tokyo, japan 812 hilton ramses cairo, egypt 771 hilton london kensington london, united kingdom 601 hilton vienna vienna, austria 579 hilton tel aviv tel aviv, israel 560 hilton osaka (1) osaka, japan 525 hilton istanbul istanbul, turkey 499 hilton salt lake city salt lake city, ut, usa 499 hilton munich park munich, germany 484 hilton munich city munich, germany 480 london hilton on park lane london, united kingdom 453 hilton diagonal mar barcelona barcelona, spain 433 hilton mainz mainz, germany 431 hilton trinidad &amp; conference centre port of spain, trinidad 418 hilton london heathrow airport london, united kingdom 398 hilton izmir izmir, turkey 380 hilton london docklands riverside london, united kingdom 378 hilton addis ababa addis ababa, ethiopia 372 hilton vienna danube vienna, austria 367 hilton frankfurt frankfurt, germany 342 hilton brighton metropole brighton, united kingdom 340 hilton sandton sandton, south africa 329 hilton brisbane brisbane, australia 319 hilton glasgow glasgow, united kingdom 319 hilton milan milan, italy 319 hilton ankara ankara, turkey 315 hilton adana adana, turkey 308 hilton waldorf london, united kingdom 298 hilton cologne cologne, germany 296 hilton slussen stockholm, sweden 289 hilton nairobi (1) nairobi, kenya 287 hilton madrid airport madrid, spain 284 hilton parmelia perth parmelia perth, australia 284 hilton london canary wharf london, united kingdom 282 hilton amsterdam amsterdam, netherlands 271 hilton newcastle gateshead newcastle upon tyne, united kingdom 254 hilton bonn bonn, germany 252 hilton london tower bridge london, united kingdom 245 hilton london stansted airport stansted, united kingdom 239 hilton manchester airport manchester, united kingdom 230 hilton vienna plaza vienna, austria 222 hilton basel basel, switzerland 220 hilton bracknell bracknell, united kingdom 215 hilton antwerp antwerp, belgium 210 hilton reading reading, united kingdom 210 hilton leeds city leeds, united kingdom 208 hilton watford watford, united kingdom 200 hilton mersin mersin, turkey 186 hilton warwick/stratford-upon-avon warwick, united kingdom 181 hilton leicester leicester, united kingdom 179 37 property location rooms hilton innsbruck innsbruck, austria 176 hilton nottingham nottingham, united kingdom 176 hilton odawara resort &amp; spa odawara city, japan 172 hilton st. anne's manor, bracknell wokingham, united kingdom 170 hilton croydon croydon, united kingdom 168 hilton london green park london, united kingdom 163 hilton cobham cobham, united kingdom 158 hilton paris la defense paris, france 153 hilton east midlands derby, united kingdom 152 hilton maidstone maidstone, united kingdom 146 hilton avisford park, arundel arundel, united kingdom 140 hilton northampton northampton, united kingdom 139 hilton london hyde park london, united kingdom 132 hilton york york, united kingdom 131 hilton mainz city mainz, germany 127 hilton parksa istanbul istanbul, turkey 117 hilton puckrup hall, tewkesbury tewkesbury, united kingdom 112 hilton glasgow grosvenor glasgow, united kingdom 97 doubletree by hilton doubletree hotel seattle airport seattle, wa, usa 850 doubletree hotel san diego mission valley san diego, ca, usa 300 doubletree hotel sonoma wine country rohnert park, ca, usa 245 doubletree hotel durango durango, co, usa 159 other scandic hotel sergel plaza stockholm, sweden 403 the trafalgar london london, united kingdom 129 ____________ (1) we own a majority or controlling financial interest, but less than a 100 percent interest, in entities that lease these properties. corporate headquarters and regional offices our corporate headquarters are located at 7930 jones branch drive, mclean, virginia 22102. these offices consist of approximately 177,653 square feet of leased space. the lease for this property initially expires on december 31, 2019, with options to renew and increase the rentable square feet. we also have corporate offices in watford, england (europe), dubai (middle east &amp; africa) and singapore (asia pacific). additionally, to support our operations, we have our hilton hhonors and other commercial services office in addison, texas, the hilton grand vacations headquarters in orlando, florida and timeshare sales offices in honolulu, hawaii, las vegas, nevada, new york city, new york, orlando, florida, tumon bay, guam and tokyo, japan. other non-operating real estate holdings include a centralized operations center and a centralized data center, both located in memphis, tennessee; and a hilton reservations and customer care office in carrollton, texas. we believe that our existing office properties are in good condition and are sufficient and suitable for the conduct of our business. in the event we need to expand our operations, we believe that suitable space will be available on commercially reasonable terms. item 3. legal proceedings we are involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums, including proceedings involving tort and other general liability claims, employee claims, consumer protection claims and claims related to our management of certain hotel properties. most occurrences involving liability, claims of negligence and employees are covered by insurance with solvent insurance carriers. for those matters not covered by insurance, which include commercial matters, we recognize a liability when we believe the loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. we believe we have adequate reserves against such matters. we currently believe that the ultimate outcome of such lawsuits and proceedings will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations 38 or liquidity. however, depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations in a particular period. in re on-line travel company (otc)/hotel booking antitrust litigation we are a defendant in a federal multi-district litigation, currently pending in the u.s. district court for the northern district of texas, which consolidates 30 previously separate actions originally filed in federal courts between august 2012 and february 2013. the consolidated amended complaint alleges that approximately a dozen hotel and online travel company defendants engaged in an anti-competitive scheme to fix the prices of hotel rooms in violation of federal and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. in february 2014, the court dismissed all of the plaintiffs' claims under rule 12(b)(6) on the basis that there were no facts to support the allegations. the plaintiffs have 30 days to file for permission to amend their complaint. we dispute the allegations and will continue to vigorously defend our interests as necessary. we currently do not believe the ultimate outcome of this litigation will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 39 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock began trading publicly on the nyse under the symbol "hlt" on december 12, 2013 . prior to that time, there was no public market for our common stock. as of february 12, 2014, there were approximately 56 holders of record of our common stock. this stockholder figure does not include a substantially greater number of holders whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers and other financial institutions. the following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the nyse for the indicated periods: stock price high low fiscal year ended december 31, 2013 fourth quarter (beginning december 12, 2013) $ 25.95 $ 21.15 dividends we have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. because we are a holding company and have no direct operations, we will only be able to pay dividends from funds we receive from our subsidiaries. we did not declare or pay any dividends on our common stock during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. issuer purchases of equity securities during the quarter and year ended december 31, 2013 , we did not purchase any of our equity securities that are registered under section 12(b) of the exchange act. securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans as of december 31, 2013 number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (2) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (2) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans equity compensation plan approved by stockholders (1) 19,500 n/a 79,980,500 ____________ (1) relates only to the hilton worldwide holdings inc. 2013 omnibus incentive plan detailed below. (2) includes 19,500 shares that may be issued upon the vesting of restricted stock units, which cannot be exercised for consideration. on december 11, 2013, the board of directors and our then sole stockholder adopted the 2013 omnibus incentive plan under which 80,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved. the 2013 omnibus incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based and performance compensation awards to eligible employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors of hilton. if an award under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan terminates, lapses or is settled without the payment of the full number of shares subject to the award, the undelivered shares may be granted again under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan. as of december 31, 2013, there were no equity compensation plans not approved by hilton stockholders. 40 recent sales of unregistered securities during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we did not sell any equity securities that were not registered under the securities act. use of proceeds from registered securities on december 17, 2013 , we completed an initial public offering (the "ipo") in which we sold 64,102,564 shares of common stock and a selling stockholder of the company sold 71,184,153 shares of common stock (including 17,646,093 shares of common stock that were subject to the underwriter's option to purchase additional shares) at an initial public offering price of $20.00 per share. the shares offered and sold in the ipo were registered under the securities act pursuant to our registration statement on form s-1 (file no. 333-191110), which was declared effective by the sec on december 11, 2013 . the offering did not terminate until after the sale of all 135,286,717 shares of common stock registered on the registration statement. the aggregate offering price for the shares registered and sold by us was approximately $1,282 million and the aggregate offering price for the shares sold by the selling stockholder of the company was approximately $1,424 million. the underwriters of the offering were led by deutsche bank securities inc, goldman, sachs &amp; co., merrill lynch, pierce, fenner &amp; smith incorporated, morgan stanley &amp; co. llc. j.p. morgan securities llc and wells fargo securities, llc. the ipo generated net proceeds of approximately $1,243 million to us after net underwriting discounts and commissions of $27 million and other offering expenses of $12 million. no offering expenses were paid directly or indirectly to any of our directors or officers (or their associates), persons owning 10 percent or more of our common stock or any other affiliates. we used our proceeds from the offering, along with available cash, to repay approximately $1,250 million of term loan borrowings outstanding under our senior secured credit facility. performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return since december 12, 2013 , the date our common stock began trading on the nyse, with the s&amp;p 500 index (" s&amp;p 500 ") and the s&amp;p hotels, resorts &amp; cruise lines index ("s&amp;p hotel"). the graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index was $100 on december 12, 2013 and that all dividends and other distributions were reinvested. 12/12/2013 12/31/2013 hilton worldwide $100.0 $103.5 s&amp;p 500 $100.0 $104.1 s&amp;p hotel $100.0 $109.2 41 item 6. selected financial data we derived the selected statement of operations data for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 and the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. we derived the selected statement of operations data for the year ended december 31, 2010 and the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2011 from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this annual report on form 10-k. we derived the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2010 from our unaudited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this annual report on form 10-k. we derived the selected statement of operations and balance sheet data as of and for the year ended december 31, 2009 from hilton worldwide, inc.'s audited consolidated financial statements, which are not included in this annual report on form 10-k. for periods prior to the ipo, the number of shares used to compute earnings (losses) per share gives retroactive effect to the 9,205,128-for-1 stock split that we completed prior to closing the ipo. our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period. the selected consolidated financial data below should be read together with the consolidated financial statements including the related notes thereto, and "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in millions, except per share data) statement of operations data: revenues owned and leased hotels $ 4,046 $ 3,979 $ 3,898 $ 3,667 $ 3,540 management and franchise fees and other 1,175 1,088 1,014 901 807 timeshare 1,109 1,085 944 863 832 6,330 6,152 5,856 5,431 5,179 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 3,405 3,124 2,927 2,637 2,397 total revenues 9,735 9,276 8,783 8,068 7,576 expenses owned and leased hotels 3,147 3,230 3,213 3,009 2,904 timeshare 730 758 668 634 644 depreciation and amortization 603 550 564 574 587 impairment losses 54 20 24 475 general, administrative and other 748 460 416 637 423 5,228 5,052 4,881 4,878 5,033 other expenses from managed and franchised properties 3,405 3,124 2,927 2,637 2,394 total expenses 8,633 8,176 7,808 7,515 7,427 operating income 1,102 1,100 975 553 149 net income (loss) attributable to hilton stockholders 415 352 253 128 (532 ) basic and diluted earnings (losses) per share $ 0.45 $ 0.38 $ 0.27 $ 0.14 $ (0.58 ) weighted average shares outstanding (basic and diluted) 923 921 921 921 921 42 december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) selected balance sheet data: cash and cash equivalents $ 594 $ 755 $ 781 $ 796 $ 738 restricted cash and cash equivalents 266 550 658 619 394 total assets 26,562 27,066 27,312 27,750 29,140 long-term debt (1) 11,755 15,575 16,311 16,995 21,125 non-recourse timeshare debt (1)(2) 672 non-recourse debt and capital lease obligations of consolidated variable interest entities (1) 296 420 481 541 574 total equity (deficit) 4,276 2,155 1,702 1,544 (1,470 ) ____________ (1) includes current maturities. (2) includes our current and long-term maturities of our non-recourse timeshare financing receivables credit facility ("timeshare facility") and our 2.28 percent notes backed by timeshare financing receivables ("securitized timeshare debt"). 43 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. overview our business hilton worldwide is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,115 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 678,630 rooms in 91 countries and territories. in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of 10 world-class brands. our flagship full-service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio also includes our luxury hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts and conrad hotels &amp; resorts, our full-service hotel brands, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites hotels, our focused-service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton inn, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton, and our timeshare brand, hgv. we own or lease interests in 155 hotels, many of which are located in global gateway cities, including iconic properties such as the waldorf astoria new york, the hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. more than 314,000 team members proudly serve in our properties and corporate offices around the world, and we have approximately 40 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors. segments and regions management analyzes our operations and business by both operating segments and geographic regions. our operations consist of three reportable segments that are based on similar products or services: management and franchise; ownership; and timeshare. the management and franchise segment provides services, which include hotel management and licensing of our brands to franchisees, as well as property management at timeshare properties. this segment generates its revenue from management and franchise fees charged to hotel owners, including our owned and leased hotels, and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. as a manager of hotels and timeshare resorts, we typically are responsible for supervising or operating the property in exchange for management fees. as a franchisor of hotels, we charge franchise fees in exchange for the use of one of our brand names and related commercial services, such as our reservation system, marketing and information technology services. the ownership segment generates revenue from providing hotel room rentals, food and beverage sales and other services at our owned and leased hotels. the timeshare segment consists of multi-unit vacation ownership properties. this segment generates revenue by marketing and selling timeshare interests owned by hilton and third parties, providing consumer financing and resort operations. geographically, management conducts business through three distinct geographic regions: the americas; europe, middle east and africa ("emea"); and asia pacific. the americas region includes north america, south america and central america, including all caribbean nations. although the u.s. is included in the americas, it is often analyzed separately and apart from the americas geographic region and, as such, it is presented separately within the analysis herein. the emea region includes europe, which represents the western-most peninsula of eurasia stretching from ireland in the west to russia in the east, and the middle east and africa ("mea"), which represents the middle east region and all african nations, including the indian ocean island nations. europe and mea are often analyzed separately by management. the asia pacific region includes the eastern and southeastern nations of asia, as well as india, australia, new zealand and the pacific island nations. as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 77 percent of our system-wide hotel rooms were located in the u.s. we expect that the percentage of our hotel rooms outside the u.s. will continue to increase in future years as hotels in our pipeline open. system growth and pipeline to support our growth strategy, we continue to expand our development pipeline. as of december 31, 2013 , we had a total of 1,123 hotels in our development pipeline, representing 194,572 rooms under construction or approved for development throughout 76 countries and territories. as of december 31, 2013 , 101,810 rooms, representing 52 percent of our development pipeline, were under construction. of the 194,572 rooms in the pipeline, 117,361 rooms, representing 60 percent of the pipeline, were located outside the u.s. as of december 31, 2013 , over 99 percent of the rooms under construction and in our total pipeline were within our management and franchise segment, and only one development project was within our ownership segment. we do not consider that project, or any individual development project relating to properties under our management and franchise segment, to be material to us. 44 our management and franchise contracts are designed to expand our business with limited or no capital investment. the capital required to build and maintain hotels that we manage or franchise is typically provided by the owner of the respective hotel with minimal or no capital required by us as the manager or franchisor. additionally, prior to approving the addition of new hotels to our management and franchise development pipeline, we evaluate the economic viability of the hotel based on the geographic location, the credit quality of the third-party owner and other factors. as a result, by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements with third-party owners, we expect to achieve a higher overall return on invested capital. recent events initial public offering on december 17, 2013 , we completed our ipo in which we sold 64,102,564 shares of common stock and a selling stockholder sold 71,184,153 shares of common stock at an initial public offering price of $20.00 per share. the shares offered and sold in the offering were registered under the securities act pursuant to our registration statement on form s-1, which was declared effective by the sec on december 11, 2013 . the common stock is listed on the nyse under the symbol "hlt" and began trading publicly on december 12, 2013 . the offering generated net proceeds of approximately $1,243 million to us after underwriting discounts, expenses and transaction costs. we used the offering proceeds along with available cash to repay approximately $1,250 million of term loan borrowings outstanding under our senior secured credit facility. debt refinancing on october 25, 2013, we repaid in full all $13.4 billion in borrowings outstanding on such date under our senior mortgage loans and secured mezzanine loans with proceeds from: (1) our october 4, 2013 offering of $1.5 billion of 5.625% senior notes due 2021 (the "senior notes"), which were released from escrow on october 25, 2013, (2) borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility (the "senior secured credit facility"), which consists of a $7.6 billion term loan facility (the "term loans") and an undrawn $1.0 billion revolving credit facility (the "revolving credit facility"), (3) a $3.5 billion commercial mortgage-backed securities loan secured by 23 of our u.s. owned real estate assets (the "cmbs loan") and (4) a $525 million mortgage loan secured by our waldorf astoria new york property (the "waldorf astoria loan"), together with additional borrowings under the timeshare facility and cash on hand. in addition, on october 25, 2013, we issued a notice of redemption to holders of all of the outstanding $96 million aggregate principal amount of their 8 percent quarterly interest bonds due 2031 on november 25, 2013. the bonds were redeemed in full at a redemption price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount thereof and interest accrued and unpaid thereon, to, but not including november 25, 2013. we refer to the transactions discussed above as the "debt refinancing." hilton hhonors points sales in october 2013, we sold hilton hhonors points to american express travel related services company, inc. ("amex") and citibank, n.a. ("citi") for $400 million and $250 million, respectively, in cash. we used the net proceeds of the hilton hhonors points sales to reduce outstanding indebtedness in connection with the debt refinancing. for more information on these transactions, see " liquidity and capital resources" as well as note 13 : " debt " and note 14 : " deferred revenues " in our consolidated financial statements. principal components and factors affecting our results of operations revenues principal components we primarily derive our revenues from the following sources: owned and leased hotels. represents revenues derived from hotel operations, including room rentals, food and beverage sales and other ancillary services. these revenues are primarily derived from two categories of customers: transient and group. transient guests are individual travelers who are traveling for business or leisure. our group guests are traveling for group events that reserve rooms for meetings, conferences or social functions sponsored by associations, corporate, social, military, educational, religious or other organizations. group business usually includes a block of room accommodations, as well as other ancillary services, such as catering and banquet services. a majority 45 of our food and beverage sales and other ancillary services are provided to customers who are also occupying rooms at our hotel properties. as a result, occupancy affects all components of our owned and leased hotel revenues. management and franchise fees and other. represents revenues derived from management fees earned from hotels and timeshare properties managed by us, franchise fees received in connection with the franchising of our brands and other revenue generated by the incidental support of hotel operations for owned, leased, managed and franchised properties and other rental income. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base fee, which is typically a percentage of each hotel's gross revenue, and in some cases an incentive fee, which is based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. management fees from timeshare properties are generally a fixed amount as stated in the management agreement. outside of the u.s., our fees are often more dependent on hotel profitability measures, either through a single management fee structure where the entire fee is based on a profitability measure, or because our two-tier fee structure is more heavily weighted toward the incentive fee than the base fee. additionally, we receive one-time upfront fees upon execution of certain management contracts. in general, the hotel owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. the initial terms of our management agreements for full-service hotels typically are 20 years. extensions are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full-service hotels. typically these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually or in comparison to specified hotels. under our franchise agreements, franchisees pay us franchise fees which consist of initial application and initiation fees for new hotels entering the system and monthly royalty fees, generally calculated as a percentage of room revenues. royalty fees for our full-service brands may also include a percentage of gross food and beverage revenues and other revenues, where applicable. in addition to the franchise application and royalty fees, franchisees also generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the cost of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation system expenses; and quality assurance program costs. our franchise agreements typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new construction and approximately 10 to 20 years for properties that are converted from other brands. at the expiration of the initial term, we may relicense the hotel to the franchisee at our option, the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. timeshare. represents revenues derived from the sale and financing of timeshare units and revenues from enrollments and other fees, rentals of timeshare units, food and beverage sales and other ancillary services at our timeshare properties and fees, which we refer to as resort operations. additionally, in recent years, we began a transformation of our timeshare business to a capital light model in which third-party timeshare owners and developers provide capital for development while we act as the sales and marketing agent and property manager. through these transactions, we receive a sales and marketing commission and branding fees on sales of timeshare intervals, recurring fees to operate the homeowners' associations and revenues from resort operations. other revenues from managed and franchised properties. these revenues represent the payroll and its related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, as well as certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, marketing expenses and other expenses associated with our brands and shared services that are contractually either reimbursed to us by the property owners or paid from fees collected in advance from these properties. the corresponding expenses are presented as other expenses from managed and franchised properties in our consolidated statements of operations resulting in no effect on operating income or net income. 46 factors affecting our revenues the following factors affect the revenues we derive from our operations: consumer demand and global economic conditions . consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence and adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased operations and the amount of management and franchise fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties. further, competition for hotel guests and the supply of hotel services affect our ability to increase rates charged to customers at our hotels. also, declines in hotel profitability during an economic downturn directly affect the incentive portion of our management fees, which is based on hotel profit measures. our timeshare segment also is linked to cycles in the general economy and consumer discretionary spending. as a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles can subject and have subjected our revenues to significant volatility. our results of operations have steadily improved as the global economy continues to recover, resulting in an increase in system-wide revpar of 8.8 percent from the year ended december 31, 2011 to the year ended december 31, 2013 . agreements with third-party owners and franchisees and relationships with developers . we depend on our long-term management and franchise agreements with third-party owners and franchisees for a significant portion of our management and franchise fee revenues. the success and sustainability of our management and franchise business depends on our ability to perform under our management and franchise agreements and maintain good relationships with third-party owners and franchisees. our relationships with these third parties also generate new relationships with developers and opportunities for property development that can support our growth. growth and maintenance of our hotel system and earning fees relating to hotels in the pipeline are dependent on the ability of developers and owners to access capital for the development, maintenance and renovation of properties. we believe that we have good relationships with our third-party owners, franchisees and developers and are committed to the continued growth and development of these relationships. these relationships exist with a diverse group of owners, franchisees and developers and are not significantly concentrated with any particular third party. additionally, in recent years we have entered into sales and marketing agreements to sell timeshare units on behalf of third-party developers. our supply of third-party developed timeshare intervals was approximately 73,000 , or 78 percent of total supply, as of december 31, 2013 . we expect sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers and resort operations to comprise a growing percentage of our timeshare revenue and revenues derived from the sale and financing of timeshare units developed by us to comprise a smaller percentage of our timeshare revenue in future periods, consistent with our strategy to focus our business on the management aspects and deploy less of our capital to asset construction. expenses principal components we primarily incur the following expenses: owned and leased hotels. owned and leased hotel expenses reflect the operating expenses of our consolidated owned and leased hotels, including room expense, food and beverage costs, other support costs and property expenses. room expense includes compensation costs for housekeeping, laundry and front desk staff and supply costs for guest room amenities and laundry. food and beverage costs include costs for wait and kitchen staff and food and beverage products. other support expenses consist of costs associated with property-level management, utilities, sales and marketing, operating hotel spas, telephones, parking and other guest recreation, entertainment and services. property expenses include property taxes, repairs and maintenance, rent and insurance. timeshare . timeshare expenses include the cost of inventory sold during the period, sales and marketing expenses, resort operations expenses and other overhead expenses associated with our timeshare business. depreciation and amortization. these are non-cash expenses that primarily consist of depreciation of fixed assets such as buildings, furniture, fixtures and equipment at our consolidated owned and leased hotels, as well as certain corporate assets. amortization expense primarily consists of amortization of our management and franchise intangibles, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. additionally, we amortize capitalized software over the estimated useful life of the software. 47 general, administrative and other expenses. general, administrative and other expenses consist primarily of compensation expense for our corporate staff and personnel supporting our business segments (including divisional offices that support our management and franchise segment), professional fees (including consulting, audit and legal fees), travel and entertainment expenses, bad debt expenses, contractual performance obligations and office administrative and related expenses. expenses incurred by our supply management business, laundry facilities and other ancillary businesses are also included in general, administrative and other expenses. impairment losses. we hold significant amounts of goodwill, amortizing and non-amortizing intangible assets, long-lived assets and investments. we evaluate these assets for impairment as further discussed in " critical accounting policies and estimates." these evaluations have, in the past, resulted in impairment losses for certain of these assets based on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding the assets and our estimates of fair value. based on economic conditions or other factors at a property-specific or company-wide level, we may be required to take additional impairment losses to reflect further declines in our asset and/or investment values. other expenses from managed and franchised properties. these expenses represent the payroll and its related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, as well as certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, marketing expenses and other expenses associated with our brands and shared services that are contractually either reimbursed to us by the property owners or paid from fees collected in advance from these properties. the corresponding revenues are presented as other revenues from managed and franchised properties in our consolidated statements of operations resulting in no effect on operating income or net income. factors affecting our costs and expenses the following are principal factors that affect the costs and expenses we incur in the course of our operations: fixed expenses. many of the expenses associated with managing, franchising and owning hotels and timeshare resorts are relatively fixed. these expenses include personnel costs, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, as well as sales and marketing expenses for our timeshare segment. if we are unable to decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels and other properties decreases, the resulting decline in our revenues can have an adverse effect on our net cash flow, margins and profits. this effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth. economic downturns generally affect the results of our owned and leased hotel segment more significantly than the results of our management and franchising segments due to the high fixed costs associated with operating an owned or leased hotel. the effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts is limited by the fixed costs inherent in our business. as a result, we may not be able to offset revenue reductions through cost cutting. employees at some of our owned and leased hotels are parties to collective bargaining agreements that may also limit our ability to make timely staffing or labor changes in response to declining revenues. in addition, any efforts to reduce costs, or to defer or cancel capital improvements, could adversely affect the economic value of our hotels and brands. we have taken steps to reduce our fixed costs to levels we feel are appropriate to maximize profitability and respond to market conditions without jeopardizing the overall customer experience or the value of our hotels or brands. also, a significant portion of our costs to support our timeshare business relates to direct sales and marketing of these units. in periods of decreased demand for timeshare units, we may be unable to reduce our sales and marketing expenses quickly enough to prevent a deterioration of our profit margins on our timeshare business. changes in depreciation and amortization expense. changes in depreciation expense may be driven by renovations of existing hotels, acquisition or development of new hotels, the disposition of existing hotels through sale or closure, or changes in estimates of the useful lives of our assets. as we place new assets into service we will be required to record additional depreciation expense on those assets. additionally, we capitalize costs associated with certain software development projects, and as those projects are completed and placed into service, amortization expense will increase. 48 other items effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations significant portions of our operations are conducted in functional currencies other than our reporting currency, which is the u.s. dollar ("usd"), and we have assets and liabilities denominated in a variety of foreign currencies. as a result, we are required to translate those results, assets and liabilities from the functional currency into usd at market based exchange rates for each reporting period. when comparing our results of operations between periods, there may be material portions of the changes in our revenues or expenses that are derived from fluctuations in exchange rates experienced between those periods. seasonality the lodging industry is seasonal in nature. however, the periods during which our hotels experience higher or lower levels of demand vary from property to property and depend upon location, type of property and competitive mix within the specific location. based on historical results, we generally expect our revenue to be lower during the first calendar quarter of each year than during each of the three subsequent quarters, with the fourth quarter producing the strongest revenues of the year. key business and financial metrics used by management comparable hotels we define our comparable hotels as those that: (i) were active and operating in our system for at least one full calendar year as of the end of the current period, and open january 1st of the previous year; (ii) have not undergone a change in brand or ownership during the current or comparable periods reported; and (iii) have not sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, undergone or planned to undergo large-scale capital projects or for which comparable results are not available. of the 4,073 hotels in our system as of december 31, 2013 , 3,548 have been classified as comparable hotels. our 525 non-comparable hotels include 14 properties, or less than one percent of the total hotels in our system, that have been removed from the comparable group during the last year because they have sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, undergone large-scale capital projects or comparable results were not available. of the 3,926 hotels in our system as of december 31, 2012, 3,484 have been classified as comparable hotels for the year ended december 31, 2012. occupancy occupancy represents the total number of rooms sold divided by the total number of rooms available at a hotel or group of hotels. occupancy measures the utilization of our hotels' available capacity. management uses occupancy to gauge demand at a specific hotel or group of hotels in a given period. occupancy levels also help us determine achievable adr levels as demand for hotel rooms increases or decreases. average daily rate adr represents hotel room revenue divided by total number of rooms sold in a given period. adr measures average room price attained by a hotel and adr trends provide useful information concerning the pricing environment and the nature of the customer base of a hotel or group of hotels. adr is a commonly used performance measure in the industry, and we use adr to assess pricing levels that we are able to generate by type of customer, as changes in rates have a different effect on overall revenues and incremental profitability than changes in occupancy, as described above. revenue per available room we calculate revpar by dividing hotel room revenue by room nights available to guests for the period. we consider revpar to be a meaningful indicator of our performance as it provides a metric correlated to two primary and key drivers of operations at our hotels: occupancy and adr. revpar is also a useful indicator in measuring performance over comparable periods for comparable hotels. references to revpar and adr throughout this report are presented on a currency neutral (all periods using the same exchange rates) and comparable basis, unless otherwise noted. 49 ebitda and adjusted ebitda ebitda, presented herein, is a financial measure that is not recognized under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ("u.s. gaap") that reflects net income attributable to hilton stockholders, excluding interest expense, a provision for income taxes and depreciation and amortization. we consider ebitda to be a useful measure of operating performance, due to the significance of our long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. adjusted ebitda, presented herein, is calculated as ebitda, as previously defined, further adjusted to exclude gains, losses and expenses in connection with: (i) asset dispositions for both consolidated and unconsolidated investments; (ii) foreign currency transactions; (iii) debt restructurings/retirements; (iv) non-cash impairment losses; (v) furniture, fixtures and equipment ("ff&amp;e") replacement reserves required under certain lease agreements; (vi) reorganization costs; (vii) share-based and certain other compensation expenses prior to and in connection with our ipo; (viii) severance, relocation and other expenses; and (ix) other items. ebitda and adjusted ebitda are not recognized terms under u.s. gaap and should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or other measures of financial performance or liquidity derived in accordance with u.s. gaap. in addition, our definitions of ebitda and adjusted ebitda may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. we believe that ebitda and adjusted ebitda provide useful information to investors about us and our financial condition and results of operations for the following reasons: (i) ebitda and adjusted ebitda are among the measures used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance and make day-to-day operating decisions; and (ii) ebitda and adjusted ebitda are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties as a common performance measure to compare results or estimate valuations across companies in our industry. ebitda and adjusted ebitda have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider such measures either in isolation or as a substitute for net income (loss), cash flow or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under u.s. gaap. some of these limitations are: ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect our interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our indebtedness; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect our tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect the effect on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and other companies in our industry may calculate ebitda and adjusted ebitda differently, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures. because of these limitations, ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as discretionary cash available to us to reinvest in the growth of our business or as measures of cash that will be available to us to meet our obligations. 50 results of operations year ended december 31, 2013 compared with year ended december 31, 2012 during the year ended december 31, 2013 , we experienced occupancy increases in all segments of our business, and we were able to increase rates in market segments where demand has outpaced supply. the hotel operating statistics for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2013 2013 vs. 2012 owned and leased hotels occupancy 75.9 % 0.9% pts adr $ 191.15 3.4% revpar $ 145.00 4.6% managed and franchised hotels occupancy 71.9 % 1.4% pts adr $ 130.68 3.3% revpar $ 94.02 5.3% system-wide occupancy 72.3 % 1.3% pts adr $ 136.49 3.3% revpar $ 98.65 5.2% the system-wide increase in revpar was led by our asia pacific region, which experienced an increase of 7.0 percent due primarily to increased occupancy of 4.5 percentage points. in the americas region, which includes the u.s., revpar increased 5.2 percent due to increased occupancy of 1.2 percentage points and increased adr of 3.4 percent. our hotels in the mea region experienced a revpar increase of 6.4 percent, due to increased adr of 13.1 percent, offset by decreased occupancy of 3.7 percentage points. our european hotels experienced a revpar increase of 3.9 percent, primarily due to increased occupancy of 2.2 percentage points. revenues year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) owned and leased hotels $ 4,046 $ 3,979 1.7 management and franchise fees and other 1,175 1,088 8.0 timeshare 1,109 1,085 2.2 $ 6,330 $ 6,152 2.9 revenues as presented in this section excludes other revenues from managed and franchised properties of $ 3,405 million and $ 3,124 million during the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2013 , the overall improved performance at our owned and leased hotels primarily was a result of improvement in revpar of 4.6 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. as of december 31, 2013 , we had 35 consolidated owned and leased hotels located in the u.s., comprising 24,050 rooms. revenues at our u.s. owned and leased hotels for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 totaled $2,058 million and $1,922 million , respectively. the increase of $136 million , or 7.1 percent , was primarily driven by an increase in revpar at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels of 6.8 percent, which was due to increases in occupancy and adr of 1.6 percentage points and 4.5 percent, respectively. as of december 31, 2013 , we had 89 consolidated owned and leased hotels located outside of the u.s., comprising 25,781 rooms. revenues from our international (non-u.s.) owned and leased hotels for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 51 totaled $1,988 million and $2,057 million , respectively. the decrease of $69 million , or 3.4 percent , was primarily due to an unfavorable movement in foreign currency rates of $63 million; on a currency neutral basis, revenue decreased $6 million. the decrease in currency neutral revenue was a result of a $44 million decrease in revenue from hotels that we sold or where leases expired during the periods, offset by an increase in revenues from our international comparable owned and leased hotels, which had a revpar increase of 8.0 percent. the revpar increase was a result of a 4.2 percentage point increase in occupancy and a 2.0 percent increase in adr. management and franchise fees and other management and franchise fee revenue for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 totaled $1,115 million and $1,032 million , respectively. the increase of $83 million , or 8.0 percent , reflects increases in revpar of 6.0 percent and 5.0 percent at our comparable managed and franchised properties, respectively. the increases in revpar for managed and franchised hotels were driven by both increases in occupancy and adr. the addition of new hotels to our managed and franchised system also contributed to the growth in revenue. during 2013, we added 45 managed properties on a net basis, contributing an additional 10,196 rooms to our system, as well as 108 franchised properties on a net basis, providing an additional 16,084 rooms to our system. as new hotels are established in our system, we expect the fees received from such hotels to increase as they are part of our system for full periods. other revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 were $60 million and $56 million , respectively. the increase was primarily driven by an increase in revenues received from our supply management business. timeshare timeshare revenue increased $24 million due to an increase of approximately $63 million in sales commissions generated from projects developed by third parties as a result of three properties comprising 1,049 units commencing sales during or after the year ended december 31, 2012 . additionally, there was an increase of approximately $9 million in revenue from our resort operations, primarily due to increases in club fees and room rentals, as well as an increase of approximately $9 million in financing and other revenues, primarily due to increases in portfolio interest income. these increases were offset by a decrease of approximately $57 million in revenue from the sale of timeshare units developed by us due to lower sales volume of our owned timeshare inventory, which we expect to continue as we further develop our capital light timeshare business with a focus on selling timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers. operating expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) owned and leased hotels $ 3,147 $ 3,230 (2.6) timeshare 730 758 (3.7) owned and leased hotels fluctuations in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels can be related to various factors, including changes in occupancy levels, labor costs, utilities, taxes and insurance costs. the change in the number of occupied room nights directly affects certain variable expenses, which include payroll, supplies and other operating expenses. u.s. owned and leased hotel expenses totaled $1,410 million and $1,370 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the increase of $40 million , or 2.9 percent , was due to increased occupancy levels, which resulted in an increase in variable operating expenses, including labor and utility costs. international owned and leased hotel expenses totaled $1,737 million and $1,860 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the decrease of $123 million , or 6.6 percent , was due in part to foreign currency movements, which contributed $49 million of the decrease , as international owned and leased hotel expenses, on a currency neutral basis, decreased $74 million. the decrease in currency neutral expenses was primarily due to the expiration of operating leases and sales of certain properties in 2012, as well as cost mitigation strategies and operational efficiencies employed at all of our owned and leased properties. 52 timeshare timeshare expense decreased $28 million primarily due to lower sales volume at our developed properties resulting in lower cost of sales, offset by an increase in sales and marketing expenses, most significantly related to the shift towards our capital light timeshare business. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) depreciation and amortization $ 603 $ 550 9.6 depreciation expense increased $28 million primarily due to $254 million in capital expenditures during the year ended december 31, 2013 , resulting in additional depreciation expense on certain owned and leased assets in 2013. amortization expense increased $25 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily due to capitalized software costs that were placed into service during the fourth quarter of 2012. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) impairment losses $ $ 54 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. during the year ended december 31, 2012, certain markets and properties faced operating and competitive challenges. such challenges caused a decline in expected future results of certain owned and leased properties and in the market value of certain corporate buildings, which caused us to evaluate the carrying values of these affected properties for impairment. as a result of our evaluation, we recognized impairment losses of $42 million related to our owned and leased hotels, $11 million of impairment losses related to certain corporate office facilities and $1 million of impairment losses related to one cost method investment. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) general, administrative and other $ 748 $ 460 62.6 general and administrative expenses consist of our corporate operations, compensation and related expenses, including share-based compensation, and other operating costs. general and administrative expenses were $697 million and $398 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the increase of $299 million was primarily due to share-based compensation expense of approximately $306 million related to the conversion of our executive compensation plan concurrent with our ipo during the fourth quarter of 2013. other expenses for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 were $51 million and $62 million , respectively. the decrease of $11 million was primarily due to a reduction in payments required under performance guarantees on certain managed properties between periods. non-operating income and expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) interest expense $ 620 $ 569 9.0 53 interest expense increased $51 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily due to the release of $23 million of debt issuance costs and original issue discount related to the portion of the term loans that was voluntarily prepaid during the year ended december 31, 2013, as well as an increase in the average interest rate on our outstanding borrowings. these increases were offset by decreases in interest expense as a result of voluntary prepayments of $1.45 billion made in 2013 prior to our debt refinancing. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates $ 16 $ (11 ) nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the $27 million increase in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates was primarily a result of $19 million of impairment losses on our equity method investments recognized during the year ended december 31, 2012. additionally, many of our equity method investments experienced improved operating performance, resulting in an increase in the equity in earnings from these unconsolidated affiliates. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions $ (45 ) $ 23 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the net gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions primarily relates to changes in foreign currency rates relating to short-term cross-currency intercompany loans. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) gain on debt extinguishment $ 229 $ nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the gain on debt extinguishment was the result of the debt refinancing which occurred in 2013. see note 13 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) other gain, net $ 7 $ 15 (53.3) the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2013 was primarily related to a capital lease restructuring by one of our consolidated variable interest entities ("vies") during the period. the revised terms reduced the future minimum lease payments, resulting in a reduction of the capital lease obligation and a residual amount, which was recorded in other gain, net. the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2012 was primarily related to the pre-tax gain of $5 million resulting from the sale of our interest in an investment in affiliate accounted for under the equity method, as well as a $6 million gain due to the resolution of certain contingencies relating to historical asset sales. 54 year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) income tax expense $ 238 $ 214 11.2 the $ 24 million increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of an increase in u.s. federal and foreign taxes as a result of higher taxable income, partially offset by the benefit of releasing $121 million of valuation allowances against certain foreign and state deferred tax assets during the year ended december 31, 2013 . refer to note 19 : " income taxes " in our consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of our tax provision at the u.s. statutory rate to our provision for income taxes. segment results we evaluate our business segment operating performance using segment adjusted ebitda, as described in note 24 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. refer to those financial statements for a reconciliation of adjusted ebitda to net income attributable to hilton stockholders. for a discussion of our definition of ebitda and adjusted ebitda, how management uses it to manage our business and material limitations on its usefulness, refer to " key business and financial metrics used by management". the following table sets forth revenues and adjusted ebitda by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts: year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) revenues: ownership (1)(4) $ 4,075 $ 4,006 1.7 management and franchise (2) 1,271 1,180 7.7 timeshare 1,109 1,085 2.2 segment revenues 6,455 6,271 2.9 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 3,405 3,124 9.0 other revenues (3) 69 66 4.5 intersegment fees elimination (1)(2)(3)(4) (194 ) (185 ) 4.9 total revenues $ 9,735 $ 9,276 4.9 adjusted ebitda: ownership (1)(2)(3)(4)(5) $ 926 $ 793 16.8 management and franchise (2) 1,271 1,180 7.7 timeshare (1)(2) 297 252 17.9 corporate and other (3)(4) (284 ) (269 ) 5.6 adjusted ebitda $ 2,210 $ 1,956 13.0 ____________ (1) includes charges to timeshare operations for rental fees and fees for other amenities, which are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. these charges totaled $ 26 million and $ 24 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. while the net effect is zero, our measures of segment revenues and adjusted ebitda include these fees as a benefit to the ownership segment and a cost to timeshare adjusted ebitda. (2) includes management, royalty and intellectual property fees of $ 100 million and $ 96 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. these fees are charged to consolidated owned and leased properties and are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. also includes a licensing fee of $ 56 million and $ 52 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, which is charged to our timeshare segment by our management and franchise segment and is eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. while the net effect is zero, our measures of segment revenues and adjusted ebitda include these fees as a benefit to the management and franchise segment and a cost to ownership adjusted ebitda and timeshare adjusted ebitda. (3) includes charges to consolidated owned and leased properties for services provided by our wholly owned laundry business of $ 9 million and $ 10 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. these charges are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. (4) includes various other intercompany charges of $ 3 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 . (5) includes unconsolidated affiliate adjusted ebitda. 55 ownership ownership segment revenues increased $69 million primarily due to an improvement in revpar of 4.6 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. refer to " revenues owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our owned and leased hotels. our ownership segment's adjusted ebitda increased $133 million primarily as a result of the increase in ownership segment revenues and the decrease in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels of $83 million. refer to " operating expenses owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the decrease in operating expenses. management and franchise management and franchise segment revenues increased $91 million primarily as a result of increases in revpar of 6.0 percent and 5.0 percent at our comparable managed and franchised properties, respectively, and the net addition of hotels to our managed and franchised system. refer to " revenues management and franchise and other" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our managed and franchised properties. our management and franchise segment's adjusted ebitda increased as a result of the increase in management and franchise segment revenues. timeshare refer to " revenues timeshare" for a discussion of the increase in revenues from our timeshare segment. our timeshare segment's adjusted ebitda increased $45 million primarily as a result of the $24 million increase in timeshare revenue and the $28 million decrease in timeshare operating expense. refer to " operating expenses timeshare for a discussion of the decrease in operating expenses from our timeshare segment. year ended december 31, 2012 compared with year ended december 31, 2011 during the year ended december 31, 2012 , we experienced occupancy increases in all segments of our business and were able to increase rates in market segments where demand outpaced supply. the hotel operating statistics for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2012 2012 vs. 2011 owned and leased hotels occupancy 74.5 % 2.3% pts adr $ 183.29 1.0% revpar $ 136.55 4.2% managed and franchised hotels occupancy 70.8 % 1.9% pts adr $ 126.17 3.0% revpar $ 89.34 5.8% system-wide occupancy 71.1 % 1.9% pts adr $ 131.35 2.9% revpar $ 93.38 5.7% the system-wide increase in occupancy was led by our asia pacific region, which had an increase of 4.8 percentage points, and was lagged by our european hotels, which had a growth in occupancy of 1.3 percentage points. our european hotels experienced a 2.5 percent increase in revpar, partially attributable to the 2012 summer olympics held in london. while political unrest in portions of the middle east continued throughout 2012, the mea region experienced a 2.8 percent increase in revpar. as of december 31, 2012, we had 10 hotels in japan, five of which were included in our ownership segment. additionally, hgv had eight sales centers and offices in japan. none of our hotels or offices in japan were damaged in the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami. our japanese operations stabilized during the third quarter of 2011 and, from that time on, our japanese hotels have experienced continued improvement in revpar, which increased 14.9 percent and supported the increase in revpar of 8.7 percent in our asia pacific region between periods. the asia pacific region experienced the largest increase in revpar of all our regions from 2011. 56 revenues year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) owned and leased hotels $ 3,979 $ 3,898 2.1 management and franchise fees and other 1,088 1,014 7.3 timeshare 1,085 944 14.9 $ 6,152 $ 5,856 5.1 revenues as presented in this section, excludes other revenues from managed and franchised properties of $3,124 million and $2,927 million during the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2012, the improved performance of our owned and leased hotels primarily was a result of improvement in revpar of 4.2 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. as of december 31, 2012, we had 35 consolidated owned and leased hotels located in the u.s., comprising 24,054 rooms. revenue at our u.s. owned and leased hotels for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 totaled $1,922 million and $1,822 million, respectively. the increase of $100 million, or 5.5 percent, was primarily driven by an increase in revpar of 5.1 percent, which was due to increases in adr and occupancy at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels of 1.5 percent and 2.7 percentage points, respectively. these increases were primarily driven by business from transient guests as room revenue from transient guests at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels increased 10.4 percent, due to increases in transient adr of 2.9 percent and transient occupancy of 7.3 percent. the increased transient room revenue was in part offset by decreases in room revenue from group travel at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels of 3.0 percent during the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. the decrease in group room revenue at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels was primarily due to one large group at one hotel driving significant group room revenue in 2011 that did not recur in 2012. excluding this one hotel from the prior year results, our group room revenue at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels increased 2.0 percent. as of december 31, 2012, we had 94 consolidated owned and leased hotels located outside of the u.s., comprising 26,565 rooms. revenue from our international owned and leased hotels totaled $2,057 million and $2,076 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011, respectively. the revenue decrease of $19 million, or 0.9 percent, was primarily due to an unfavorable movement in foreign currency rates of $76 million. on a currency neutral basis, international owned and leased hotel revenue increased $57 million, or 2.9 percent. the increase was primarily driven by an increase in revpar of 3.4 percent, which was due to an increase in occupancy at our comparable international owned and leased hotels of 1.9 percentage points, while adr remained relatively consistent period over period. the increase was also due to recovery in japan as operations stabilized in the third quarter of 2011 after the natural disasters negatively affected revenues for the first half of 2011. this recovery resulted in an increase in revpar at our comparable japanese owned and leased hotels of 18.2 percent, which was driven by an increase in occupancy and adr of 10.5 percentage points and 2.1 percent, respectively. management and franchise fees and other management and franchise fee revenue for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 totaled $1,032 million and $965 million, respectively. the increase of $67 million, or 6.9 percent, in our management and franchise business reflects increases in revpar of 4.9 percent and 6.2 percent at our comparable managed and franchised properties, respectively. the increases in revpar for both comparable periods for managed and franchised hotels were primarily driven by increased occupancy and rates charged to guests. the addition of new hotels to our managed and franchised system also contributed to the growth in revenue. we added 13 managed properties on a net basis, contributing an additional 4,265 rooms to our system, as well as 107 franchised properties on a net basis, providing an additional 14,007 rooms to our system. as new hotels are established in our system, we expect the fees received from such hotels to increase as they are part of our system for full periods. other revenues were $56 million and $49 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. 57 timeshare timeshare revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $1,085 million, an increase of $141 million, or 14.9 percent, from $944 million during the year ended december 31, 2011. this increase was primarily due to a $66 million increase in revenue from the sale of timeshare units developed by us, as well as an increase of $46 million in sales commissions and fees earned on projects developed by third parties. additionally, our revenue from resorts operations and financing and other revenues both increased $9 million. operating expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) owned and leased hotels $ 3,230 $ 3,213 0.5 timeshare 758 668 13.5 u.s. owned and leased hotel expense totaled $1,370 million and $1,345 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. the increase of $25 million, or 1.9 percent, was partially due to increased occupancy of 2.7 percentage points at our comparable u.s. owned and leased hotels, which resulted in an increase in labor and utility costs. the increase was also due to increases to sales and marketing expenses, insurance expenses and property taxes at our u.s. owned and leased hotels. international owned and leased hotel expense decreased $8 million, or 0.4 percent, to $1,860 million from $1,868 million, respectively, for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. however, there were foreign currency movements of $66 million between the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, which decreased owned and leased hotel expenses. international owned and leased hotel expenses, on a currency neutral basis, increased $58 million. the increase in currency neutral expense was primarily due to increased occupancy of 1.9 percentage points at our comparable international owned and leased hotels, which resulted in an increase in variable operating expenses and energy costs. the increase was also due to increases in rent expenses, certain of which have a variable component based on hotel revenues or profitability, as well as repair and maintenance expenses, insurance expenses and property taxes at our international owned and leased hotels. timeshare expense increased $90 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to the year ended december 31, 2011, primarily due to increased sales, marketing, general and administrative costs associated with the increase in timeshare revenue during the same period. year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) depreciation and amortization $ 550 $ 564 (2.5) depreciation and amortization expense decreased $14 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. depreciation expense, including amortization of assets recorded under capital leases, decreased $33 million primarily due to capital lease amendments which resulted in extending asset useful lives in the second half of 2011, as well as 2011 impairments, which resulted in lower depreciable asset bases for 2012. these instances led to lower depreciation expense on the same assets for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. amortization expense increased $19 million primarily due to capitalized software that was placed in service during the year ended december 31, 2012. year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) impairment losses $ 54 $ 20 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. 58 during the year ended december 31, 2012, certain specific markets and properties, particularly in europe, continued to face operating and competitive challenges. such challenges caused a decline in market value of certain corporate buildings in the current year and in expected future results for certain owned and leased properties, which caused us to evaluate the carrying values of these affected properties for impairment. during 2012, we recognized impairment losses of $42 million related to our owned and leased hotels, $11 million of impairment losses related to certain corporate office facilities, and $1 million of impairment losses related to one cost method investment. during 2011, we recognized impairment losses of $17 million related to our owned and leased hotels and $3 million on timeshare properties. year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) general, administrative and other $ 460 $ 416 10.6 general and administrative expenses consist of our corporate operations, compensation and related expenses, including share-based compensation, and other operating costs. general and administrative expenses for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 totaled $398 million and $377 million, respectively. in 2011, we recorded a one-time $20 million insurance recovery related to a prior year legal settlement. excluding this recovery, general and administrative expenses increased $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase includes a $31 million increase in share-based compensation expense due to the acceleration of certain payments under our share-based compensation plan. these increases were offset by decreases in employee retirement costs from the acceleration of a $13 million prior service credit relating to the freeze of our employee benefit plan that covers workers in the united kingdom (the "u.k. plan") agreed to in march 2012, reorganization costs of $16 million that were recorded in 2011 and other operating costs. other expenses were $62 million and $39 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. this increase of $23 million was due to an increase of $16 million in various operating expenses incurred for the incidental support of hotel operations and an increase of $3 million for guarantee payments. non-operating income and expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) interest expense $ 569 $ 643 (11.5) interest expense decreased $74 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. the decrease in interest expense was attributable to debt payments during the fourth quarter 2011, which resulted in lower 2012 debt principal balances to which interest rates were applied. the weighted average effective interest rate on our outstanding debt was approximately 3.4 percent and 3.7 percent for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) equity in losses from unconsolidated affiliates $ 11 $ 145 (92.4) the $134 million decrease in the loss from prior year was primarily due to other-than-temporary impairments on our equity investments of $19 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, as compared to other-than-temporary impairments of $141 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 resulting from declines in certain joint ventures current and expected future operating results. 59 year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions $ 23 $ (21 ) nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the net gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions primarily relates to changes in foreign currency rates relating to short-term cross-currency intercompany loans. year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) other gain, net $ 15 $ 19 (21.1) the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2012 was primarily related to a pre-tax gain of $5 million resulting from the sale of our interest in an investment in affiliate accounted for under the equity method, as well as a $6 million gain due to the resolution of certain contingencies relating to historical asset sales. the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2011 was primarily due to a gain of $16 million on the sale of our former headquarters building in beverly hills, california, as well a gain of $13 million related to the restructuring of a capital lease. these gains were offset by a loss of $10 million related to the sale of our interest in a hotel development joint venture. year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) income tax benefit (expense) $ (214 ) $ 59 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. our income tax expense for the year ended december 31, 2012 was primarily a result of $201 million related to our u.s. federal income tax provision. for the year ended december 31, 2011, our income tax expense, which was primarily related to $69 million and $50 million in u.s. federal and foreign income tax provision, respectively, was offset by a release of $182 million in valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets related to u.s. federal foreign tax credits resulting in an overall tax benefit. based on our consideration of all positive and negative evidence available, we believe that it is more likely than not we will be able to realize our u.s. federal foreign tax credits. 60 segment results the following table sets forth revenues and adjusted ebitda by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts: year ended december 31, percent change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) revenues: ownership (1)(4) $ 4,006 $ 3,926 2.0 management and franchise (2) 1,180 1,095 7.8 timeshare 1,085 944 14.9 segment revenues 6,271 5,965 5.1 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 3,124 2,927 6.7 other revenues (3) 66 58 13.8 intersegment fees elimination (1)(2)(3)(4) (185 ) (167 ) 10.8 total revenues $ 9,276 $ 8,783 5.6 adjusted ebitda ownership (1)(2)(3)(4)(5) $ 793 $ 725 9.4 management and franchise (2) 1,180 1,095 7.8 timeshare (1)(2) 252 207 21.7 corporate and other (3)(4) (269 ) (274 ) (1.8) adjusted ebitda $ 1,956 $ 1,753 11.6 ____________ (1) includes charges to timeshare operations for rental fees and fees for other amenities, which are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. these charges totaled $24 million and $27 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. while the net effect is zero, our measures of segment revenues and adjusted ebitda include these fees as a benefit to the ownership segment and a cost to timeshare adjusted ebitda. (2) includes management, royalty and intellectual property fees of $96 million and $88 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. these fees are charged to consolidated owned and leased properties and are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. also includes a licensing fee of $52 million and $43 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which is charged to our timeshare segment by our management and franchise segment and is eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. while the net effect is zero, our measures of segment revenues and adjusted ebitda include these fees as a benefit to the management and franchise segment and a cost to ownership adjusted ebitda and timeshare adjusted ebitda. (3) includes charges to consolidated owned and leased properties for services provided by our wholly owned laundry business of $10 million and $9 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. these charges are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. (4) includes various other intercompany charges of $3 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. (5) includes unconsolidated affiliate adjusted ebitda. ownership ownership segment revenues increased primarily due to an improvement in revpar of 4.2 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. refer to " revenues owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our owned and leased hotels. our ownership segment's adjusted ebitda increased primarily as a result of the increase in ownership segment revenues of $80 million offset by an increase in operating expenses of $17 million at our owned and leased hotels. refer to " operating expenses owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the increase in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels. management and franchise management and franchise segment revenues increased primarily as a result of increases in revpar of 4.9 percent and 6.2 percent at our comparable managed and franchised properties, respectively, and the net addition of hotels to our managed and franchised system. refer to " revenues management and franchise fees and other" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our comparable managed and franchised properties. our management and franchise segment's adjusted ebitda increased as a result of the increase in management and franchise segment revenues. timeshare refer to " revenues timeshare" for a discussion of the increase in revenues from our timeshare segment. our timeshare segment's adjusted ebitda increased as a result of the $141 million increase in timeshare revenue, offset by a $90 million increase in timeshare operating expenses. refer to " operating expenses timeshare" for a discussion of the increase in operating expenses from our timeshare segment. 61 supplemental financial data for unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries as of december 31, 2013 , we owned majority or controlling financial interests in 49 hotels, representing 27,173 rooms. see "part i item 2. properties" for more information on each of our owned hotels. of these owned properties, 24 hotels, including the waldorf astoria new york, representing an aggregate of 20,035 rooms as of december 31, 2013 , are owned by subsidiaries that we collectively refer to as our "unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries." the properties held by our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries secure our $3.5 billion cmbs loan and the $525 million waldorf astoria loan, are not included in the collateral securing our senior secured credit facility and the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries do not guarantee obligations under our senior secured credit facility or our senior notes. in addition, the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries are not subject to any of the restrictive covenants in the indenture that governs our senior notes. for further discussion, see " liquidity and capital resources" and note 13 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. we have included this supplemental financial data to comply with certain financial information requirements regarding our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries set forth in the indenture that governs our senior notes. for the year ended december 31, 2013 , the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries represented 19.3 percent of our total revenues, 44.8 percent of net income attributable to hilton stockholders and 25.3 percent of our adjusted ebitda, and as of december 31, 2013 , represented 32.6 percent of our total assets and 29.1 percent of our total liabilities. the following table presents supplemental unaudited financial data, as required by the indenture, for our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) revenues $ 1,880 $ 1,754 $ 1,666 net income attributable to hilton stockholders 186 159 126 capital expenditures for property and equipment 134 264 251 adjusted ebitda (1) 560 464 409 cash provided by (used in): operating activities 364 343 371 investing activities (162 ) (264 ) (263 ) financing activities (186 ) (64 ) (120 ) ____________ (1) the following table provides a reconciliation of our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries' ebitda and adjusted ebitda to net income attributable to hilton stockholders, which we believe is the most closely comparable u.s. gaap measure. year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) adjusted ebitda $ 560 $ 464 $ 409 impairment losses included in equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates (7 ) other adjustment items (13 ) (7 ) ebitda 547 457 402 interest expense (1) (31 ) income tax expense (132 ) (114 ) (90 ) depreciation and amortization (198 ) (184 ) (185 ) depreciation and amortization included in equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates (1 ) net income attributable to hilton stockholders $ 186 $ 159 $ 126 ____________ (1) interest expense on the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries reflects $4,025 million of long-term debt securing these properties in connection with the debt refinancing on october 25, 2013. prior to the debt refinancing, the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries did not have outstanding long-term debt during the periods presented. 62 the following table presents supplemental unaudited financial data, as required by the indenture, for our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries: december 31, 2013 2012 (in millions) assets $ 8,649 $ 8,562 liabilities 6,496 2,453 liquidity and capital resources overview as of december 31, 2013 , we had total cash and cash equivalents of $860 million , including $266 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. the majority of our restricted cash and cash equivalents balances relates to cash collateral on our self-insurance programs and escrowed cash from our timeshare operations. our known short-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for operating expenses and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, legal costs, operating costs associated with the management of hotels, interest and scheduled principal payments on our outstanding indebtedness, contract acquisition costs and capital expenditures for renovations and maintenance at our owned and leased hotels. our long-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for scheduled debt maturities, capital improvements at our owned and leased hotels, purchase commitments, costs associated with potential acquisitions and corporate capital expenditures. we finance our business activities primarily with existing cash and cash generated from our operations. we believe that this cash will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for operating expenses and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, legal costs and purchase commitments for the foreseeable future. the objectives of our cash management policy are to maintain the availability of liquidity, minimize operational costs and use available cash to pay down our outstanding debt. further, we have an investment policy that is focused on the preservation of capital and maximizing the return on new and existing investments across all three of our business segments. additionally, we have no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility as of december 31, 2013 and we have the ability to borrow up to $957 million after giving effect to $43 million of outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit facility. recent events affecting our liquidity and capital resources initial public offering on december 17, 2013 , we completed our ipo, which generated net proceeds of approximately $1,243 million to us after underwriting discounts, expenses and transaction costs, which we used, in conjunction with available cash, to repay approximately $1,250 million of the term loans. debt refinancing upon completion of the debt refinancing, we repaid in full all $13.4 billion in borrowings under our legacy senior mortgage loans and secured mezzanine loans and redeemed the full $96 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding of our bonds due 2031 using the proceeds from our offering of $1.5 billion of senior notes, borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility, which consists of the $7.6 billion term loans and the $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, the $3.5 billion cmbs loan and a $525 million waldorf astoria loan, together with additional borrowings of $300 million under our timeshare facility and cash on hand. for further information on the debt refinancing, see note 13 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. hilton hhonors points sales in october 2013, we sold hilton hhonors points to amex and citi for $400 million and $250 million, respectively, in cash. amex and citi and their respective designees may use the points in connection with hilton hhonors co-branded credit cards and for promotions, rewards and incentive programs or certain other activities as they may establish or engage in from time to time. we used the net proceeds of the hilton hhonors points sales to reduce outstanding indebtedness in connection with the debt refinancing. 63 sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents the following table summarizes our net cash flows and key metrics related to our liquidity: as of and for the year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in millions) net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,101 $ 1,110 $ 1,167 89.3 (4.9) net cash used in investing activities (382 ) (558 ) (463 ) (31.5) 20.5 net cash used in financing activities (1,863 ) (576 ) (714 ) nm (1) (19.3) working capital surplus (2) 241 478 826 (49.6) (42.1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. (2) total current assets less total current liabilities. our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 1.11 , 1.20 and 1.37 as of december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. operating activities cash flow from operating activities is primarily generated from management and franchise revenues, operating income from our owned and leased hotels and resorts and sales of timeshare units. in a recessionary market, we may experience significant declines in travel and, thus, declines in demand for our hotel and resort rooms and timeshare units. a decline in demand could have a material effect on our cash flow from operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $2,101 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 , compared to $1,110 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 . the $991 million increase was primarily due to $650 million received from the hilton hhonors points sales, which increased our deferred revenues, and improved operating income, excluding non-cash share based compensation expense of $262 million. net cash provided by operating activities also increased during the year ended december 31, 2013 as a result of the releases of $42 million in collateral against outstanding letters of credit and $20 million of restricted cash from our timeshare operations. additionally, during the year ended december 31, 2012, our cash provided by operating activities was reduced by $76 million for collateral required to support potential future contributions to certain of our employee benefit plans. for further discussion, see note 20 : " employee benefit plans " in our consolidated financial statements. the net $57 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2012 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2011 , was primarily due to changes in various working capital components and an increase in the change in restricted cash and cash equivalents of $65 million, which were partially offset by an increase in operating income of $125 million . investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 was $382 million , compared to $558 million during the year ended december 31, 2012 . the $176 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to a decrease in capital expenditures for property and equipment of $179 million, as a result of the completion of renovations at certain of our owned and leased properties in 2012, and a decrease in software capitalization costs of $25 million, as a result of corporate software projects that were completed in 2012. additionally, there was an increase in distributions from unconsolidated affiliates of $25 million, primarily related to the sales of our interests in two joint venture entities. the decrease in net cash used in investing activities was partially offset by an increase in acquisitions of $30 million, primarily due to the acquisition of a parcel of land that we previously held under a long-term ground lease for $28 million. the $95 million increase in net cash used in investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2012 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2011 , was primarily attributable to an increase in capital expenditures for property and equipment of $44 million, a decrease in proceeds from asset dispositions of $65 million and a decrease in distributions from unconsolidated affiliates of $15 million. the majority of the increase in capital expenditures related to improvements at existing hotel properties. the decrease in proceeds from asset dispositions was a result of proceeds of $65 million from the sale of our former corporate headquarters office building in 2011, while the decrease in distributions from unconsolidated affiliates resulted from 64 the sale of our interest in a joint venture entity of $8 million in 2012, compared to proceeds from the sale of our interest in a hotel development joint venture of $23 million in 2011. for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , we capitalized labor costs relating to our investing activities, including capital expenditures and software development, of $15 million, $14 million and $14 million, respectively. financing activities net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 was $1,863 million , compared to $576 million during the year ended december 31, 2012 . the $1,287 million increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to a $2,357 million increase in net repayments of debt, primarily related to an increase in unscheduled, voluntary debt repayments on our secured debt, the repayment of the secured debt in connection with the debt refinancing and unscheduled, voluntary repayments of $350 million on our term loans subsequent to the debt refinancing. the increase in net debt repayments was offset by $1,243 million in proceeds from our ipo, which was used to repay amounts outstanding on our term loans. additionally, we paid $180 million of debt issuance costs related to the debt refinancing. net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased $138 million compared to the year ended december 31, 2011 , due to a change in restricted cash and cash equivalents that increased cash available for financing activities by $212 million, as well as an increase in borrowings of $56 million, primarily related to our consolidated vies. the change in restricted cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to a decrease of $174 million in our prefunded cash reserves, which was a result of using the reserves for capital expenditures. the increases in cash provided by financing activities were partially offset by an increase in our debt repayments of $128 million, which primarily related to an increase in non-recourse debt repayments related to our consolidated vies of $90 million. capital expenditures our capital expenditures for property and equipment of $ 254 million , $433 million and $389 million made during the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 primarily included expenditures related to the renovation of existing owned and leased properties and our corporate facilities. our software capitalization costs of $78 million , $103 million and $93 million during the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 related to various systems initiatives for the benefit of our hotel owners and our overall corporate operations. as of december 31, 2013 , we had outstanding commitments under construction contracts of approximately $121 million for capital expenditures at certain owned and leased properties, including our consolidated vies. our contracts contain clauses that allow us to cancel all or some portion of the work. if cancellation of a contract occurred, our commitment would be any costs incurred up to the cancellation date, in addition to any costs associated with the discharge of the contract. senior secured credit facility our revolving credit facility provides for $1.0 billion in borrowings, including the ability to draw up to $150 million in the form of letters of credit. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $43 million of letters of credit outstanding on our revolving credit facility, leaving us with a borrowing capacity of $957 million . we are currently required to pay a commitment fee of 0.50 percent per annum under the revolving credit facility in respect of the unused commitments thereunder. the commitment fee can be reduced upon achievement of certain leverage ratios. for further information on the senior secured credit facility, refer to note 13 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. debt as of december 31, 2013 , our total indebtedness, excluding $302 million of our share of debt of our investments in affiliates, was approximately $12.7 billion, including $968 million of non-recourse debt. for further information on our total indebtedness and the debt refinancing, refer to note 13 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. the obligations of the senior secured credit facility are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by us and all of our direct or indirect wholly owned material domestic subsidiaries, excluding our subsidiaries that are prohibited from providing guarantees as a result of the agreements governing our timeshare facility and/or our securitized timeshare debt and our subsidiaries that secure our cmbs loan and our waldorf astoria loan. additionally, none of our foreign subsidiaries or our non-wholly owned domestic subsidiaries guarantee the senior secured credit facility. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to reduce capital expenditures, issue additional equity securities or draw on our revolving credit facility. our ability to make 65 scheduled principal payments and to pay interest on our debt depends on the future performance of our operations, which is subject to general conditions in or affecting the hotel and timeshare industries that are beyond our control. letters of credit we had a total of $51 million in letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, the majority of which relate to our self-insurance programs. included in the $51 million outstanding as of december 31, 2013 was $43 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility. the remaining letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2013 and all letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2012 were issued outside the revolving credit facility. the maturities of the letters of credit were within one year as of december 31, 2013. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of december 31, 2013 : payments due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) long-term debt (1)(2) $ 14,685 $ 479 $ 1,087 $ 4,993 $ 8,126 non-recourse debt (2) 714 39 524 54 97 capital lease obligations recourse 148 8 22 12 106 non-recourse 402 26 52 52 272 operating leases 3,286 264 494 453 2,075 purchase commitments 137 74 60 3 total contractual obligations $ 19,372 $ 890 $ 2,239 $ 5,564 $ 10,679 ____________ (1) the initial maturity date of the $875 million variable-rate component of the cmbs loan is november 1, 2015. we have assumed all extensions, which are solely at our option, were exercised. (2) includes principal, as well as estimated interest payments. for our variable-rate debt we have assumed a constant 30-day libor rate of 0.17 percent as of december 31, 2013. the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of december 31, 2013 was $435 million . these amounts are excluded from the table above because they are uncertain and subject to the findings of the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. it is possible that the amount of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could change during the next year. refer to note 19 : " income taxes " in our consolidated financial statements further discussion of our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. in addition to the purchase commitments in the table above, in the normal course of business we enter into purchase commitments for which we are reimbursed by the owners of our managed and franchised hotels. these obligations have minimal or no effect on our net income and cash flow. off-balance sheet arrangements our off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2013 included letters of credit of $51 million, guarantees of $27 million for debt and obligations of third parties, performance guarantees with possible cash outlays totaling approximately $150 million , of which we have accrued $60 million as of december 31, 2013 for estimated probable exposure, and construction contract commitments of approximately $121 million for capital expenditures at our owned, leased and consolidated vie hotels. additionally, during 2010, in conjunction with a lawsuit settlement, an affiliate of our sponsor entered into service contracts with the plaintiff. as part of the settlement, we entered into a guarantee with the plaintiff to pay any shortfall that this affiliate does not fund related to those service contracts. the remaining potential exposure under this guarantee as of december 31, 2013 was approximately $48 million . see note 25 : " commitments and contingencies " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion on these amounts. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, the 66 reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods and the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. we believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies are critical because they involve a higher degree of judgment, and the estimates required to be made were based on assumptions that are inherently uncertain. as a result, these accounting policies could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and related disclosures. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates and judgments based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to reflect the current circumstances. while we believe our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information presently available. actual results may differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions and conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of the board of directors. property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives we evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net book value of the assets if we determine there are indicators of potential impairment. if it is determined that the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations as impairment losses. as part of the process described above, we exercise judgment to: determine if there are indicators of impairment present. factors we consider when making this determination include assessing the overall effect of trends in the hospitality industry and the general economy, historical experience, capital costs and other asset-specific information; determine the projected undiscounted future cash flows when indicators of impairment are present. judgment is required when developing projections of future revenues and expenses based on estimated growth rates over the expected useful life of the asset group. these estimated growth rates are based on historical operating results, as well as various internal projections and external sources; and determine the asset fair value when required. in determining the fair value, we often use internally-developed discounted cash flow models. assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models include estimating cash flows, which may require us to adjust for specific market conditions, as well as capitalization rates, which are based on location, property or asset type, market-specific dynamics and overall economic performance. the discount rate takes into account our weighted average cost of capital according to our capital structure and other market specific considerations. we had $9,058 million of property and equipment, net and $ 2,203 million of intangible assets with finite lives as of december 31, 2013 . changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. in conjunction with our regular assessment of impairment, we did not identify any property and equipment with indicators of impairment for which a 10 percent reduction in our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows would result in impairment losses. we did not identify any intangible assets with finite lives for which a 10 percent reduction in our estimates of undiscounted future cash flows, projected operating results or other significant assumptions would result in impairment losses. 67 investments in affiliates we evaluate our investments in affiliates for impairment when there are indicators that the fair value of our investment may be less than our carrying value. we record an impairment loss when we determine there has been an "other-than-temporary" decline in the investment's fair value. if an identified event or change in circumstances requires an evaluation to determine if the value of an investment may have an other-than-temporary decline, we assess the fair value of the investment based on the accepted valuation methods, which include discounted cash flows, estimates of sales proceeds and external appraisals. if an investment's fair value is below its carrying value and the decline is considered to be other-than-temporary, we will recognize an impairment loss in equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates for equity method investments or impairment losses for cost method investments in our consolidated statements of operations. our investments in affiliates consist primarily of our interests in entities that own and/or operate hotels. as such, the factors we consider when determining if there are indicators of potential impairment are similar to property and equipment discussed above. if there are indicators of potential impairment, we estimate the fair value of our equity method and cost method investments by internally developed discounted cash flow models. the principal factors used in our discounted cash flow models that require judgment are the same as the items discussed in property and equipment above. we had $260 million of investments in affiliates as of december 31, 2013 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our investments in affiliates impairment testing can result in additional impairment expense, which can materially change our consolidated financial statements. in conjunction with our regular assessment of impairment, we did not identify any investments in affiliates with indicators of impairment for which a 10 percent change in our estimates of future cash flows or other significant assumptions would result in material impairment losses. goodwill we review the carrying value of our goodwill by comparing the carrying value of our reporting units to their fair value. our reporting units are the same as our operating segments as described in note 24 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. we perform this evaluation annually or at an interim date if indicators of impairment exist. in any given year we may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. if we cannot determine qualitatively that the fair value is in excess of the carrying value, or we decide to bypass the qualitative assessment, we proceed to the two-step quantitative process. in the first step, we evaluate the fair value of our reporting units quantitatively. when determining fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models, as well as market conditions relative to the operations of our reporting units. under the discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates, and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal projections and external sources. the weighted average cost of capital is estimated based on each reporting units' cost of debt and equity and a selected capital structure. the selected capital structure for each reporting unit is based on consideration of capital structures of comparable publicly traded companies operating in the business of that reporting unit. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step must be performed. in the second step, we estimate the implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined by taking the fair value of the reporting unit and allocating it to all of its assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. we had $6,220 million of goodwill as of december 31, 2013 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment testing could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. a change in our estimates and assumptions that would reduce the fair value of each reporting units by 10 percent would not result in an impairment of any of our reporting units. 68 brands we evaluate our brand intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the brand is below the carrying value. when determining fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models for hotels that we manage or franchise. under the discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal estimates. if a brand's estimated current fair value is less than its respective carrying value, the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations within impairment losses. we had $5,013 million of brand intangible assets as of december 31, 2013 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our brands impairment testing, most notably revenue growth rates and discount rates, could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. a change in our estimates and assumptions that would reduce the fair value of each of our brands by 10 percent would not result in an impairment of any of the brand intangible assets. hilton hhonors hilton hhonors defers revenue received from participating hotels and program partners in an amount equal to the estimated cost per point of the future redemption obligation. we engage outside actuaries to assist in determining the fair value of the future award redemption obligation using statistical formulas that project future point redemptions based on factors that require judgment, including an estimate of "breakage" (points that will never be redeemed), an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed and the cost of the points to be redeemed. the cost of the points to be redeemed includes further estimates of available room nights, occupancy rates, room rates and any devaluation or appreciation of points based on changes in reward prices or changes in points earned per stay. we had $ 963 million of guest loyalty liability as of december 31, 2013 . changes in the estimates used in developing our breakage rate could result in a material change to our guest loyalty liability. a 10 percent decrease to the breakage estimate used in determining future award redemption obligations would increase our guest loyalty liability by approximately $30 million. allowance for loan losses the allowance for loan losses is related to the receivables generated by our financing of timeshare interval sales, which are secured by the underlying timeshare properties. we determine our timeshare financing receivables to be past due based on the contractual terms of the individual mortgage loans. we use a technique referred to as static pool analysis as the basis for determining our general reserve requirements on our timeshare financing receivables. the adequacy of the related allowance is determined by management through analysis of several factors requiring judgment, such as current economic conditions and industry trends, as well as the specific risk characteristics of the portfolio, including assumed default rates. we had $92 million of allowance for loan losses as of december 31, 2013 . changes in the estimates used in developing our default rates could result in a material change to our allowance. a 10 percent increase to our default rates used in the allowance calculation would increase our allowance for loan losses by approximately $35 million. income taxes we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates. we regularly review our deferred tax assets to assess their potential realization and establish a valuation allowance for portions of such assets that we believe will not be ultimately realized. in performing this review, we make estimates and assumptions regarding projected future taxable income, the expected timing of reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. a change in these assumptions may increase or decrease our valuation allowance resulting in an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. we use a prescribed more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return if there is uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. assumptions and estimates are used to determine the more-likely-than-not designation. changes to these assumptions and estimates can lead to an additional income tax expense (benefit), which can materially change our consolidated financial statements. 69 legal contingencies we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. an estimated loss from a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income if it is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. significant judgment is required when we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. changes in these factors could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. consolidations we use judgment when evaluating whether we have a controlling financial interest in our partnerships and other investments, including the assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. if the entity is considered to be a vie, we use judgment determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, and then consolidate those vies for which we have determined we are the primary beneficiary. if the entity in which we hold an interest does not meet the definition of a vie, we evaluate whether we have a controlling financial interest through our voting interests in the entity. we consolidate entities when we own more than 50 percent of the voting shares of a company or have a controlling general partner interest of a partnership, assuming the absence of other factors determining control, including the ability of minority owners to participate in or block certain decisions. changes to judgments used in evaluating our partnerships and other investments could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. share-based compensation in connection with our ipo, the equity based portion of our former executive compensation plan was modified to vested shares and unvested restricted shares of common stock, and the liability portion of the plan was settled in cash. the equity based award was exchanged for vested shares and unvested restricted shares of our common stock as follows: 40 percent of each award vested on december 11, 2013, the pricing date of our ipo; 40 percent of each award will vest on december 11, 2014, the first anniversary of the pricing date of our ipo, contingent upon continued employment through that date; and 20 percent of each award will vest on the date that our sponsor and its affiliates cease to own 50 percent or more of the shares of the company, contingent upon continued employment through that date. we recognized share-based compensation over the requisite service period of the individual grantee, which generally equals the vesting period. we currently only have service condition awards outstanding, and we have elected to use the straight-line method of expense attribution for such awards. the process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing the associated expense over the requisite service period involves significant management estimates and assumptions, including forfeiture rates. we monitor the forfeiture activity to ensure that the current estimate continues to be appropriate. any changes to this estimate will affect the amount of compensation expense we recognize with respect to any future grants. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect future income, cash flows and fair value of the company, depending on changes to interest rates and/or foreign exchange rates. in certain situations, we may seek to reduce cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. we continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. we enter into derivative financial arrangements to the extent they meet the objective described above, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable-rate debt. interest rates on our variable-rate debt discussed below are based on one-month and three-month libor, so we are most vulnerable to changes in this rate. 70 under the terms of the cmbs loan and waldorf astoria loan entered into in connection with the debt refinancing, we are required to hedge interest rate risk using derivative instruments. under the cmbs loan, we entered into an interest rate cap agreement in the notional amount of the variable-rate component, or $875 million, which caps one-month libor at 6.0 percent for the initial term of the variable-rate component. under the waldorf astoria loan, we entered into an interest rate cap agreement in the notional amount of the loan, or $525 million, which caps one-month libor at 4.0 percent for the first 24 months. thereafter, we are required to renew the interest rate cap agreement annually. as of december 31, 2013, the fair value of these interest rate caps were immaterial to our consolidated balance sheet. additionally, on october 25, 2013, we entered into four interest rate swap agreements for a combined notional amount of $1.45 billion, with a term of five years, which swapped the floating three-month libor on a portion of the term loans to a fixed rate of 1.87 percent. the carrying value and fair value of these four interest rate swaps was $10 million as of december 31, 2013 . the following table sets forth the contractual maturities and the total fair values as of december 31, 2013 for our financial instruments that are materially affected by interest rate risk: maturities by period 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter carrying value fair value (in millions, excluding average interest rates) assets: fixed-rate timeshare financing receivables $ 135 $ 116 $ 120 $ 122 $ 119 $ 382 $ 994 $ 996 average interest rate (1) 11.97 % liabilities: fixed-rate long-term debt (2) $ 1 $ $ 132 $ 53 $ 2,625 $ 1,500 $ 4,311 $ 4,575 average interest rate (1) 4.96 % fixed-rate non-recourse debt (3) $ 33 $ 26 $ 28 $ 28 $ 28 $ 79 $ 222 $ 220 average interest rate (1) 2.28 % variable-rate long-term debt (4) $ $ $ $ $ 1,400 $ 6,000 $ 7,400 $ 7,400 average interest rate (1) 3.54 % variable-rate non-recourse debt (5) $ $ $ 450 $ $ $ $ 450 $ 450 average interest rate (1) 1.42 % ____________ (1) average interest rate as of december 31, 2013 . (2) excludes capital lease obligations with a carrying value of $73 million as of december 31, 2013 . (3) represents the securitized timeshare debt. (4) the initial maturity date of the $875 million variable-rate component of this borrowing is november 1, 2015. we have assumed all extensions, which are solely at our option, were exercised. (5) represents the timeshare facility. refer to note 17 : " fair value measurements " in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion of the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in various foreign currencies and are exposed to earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. this exposure is primarily related to our international assets and liabilities, whose value could change materially in reference to our usd reporting currency. the most significant effect of changes to foreign currency values include certain intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested and to transactions for management and franchise fee revenues earned in foreign currencies. our most significant foreign currency exposure relates to fluctuations in the foreign exchange rate between usd and the british pound sterling ("gbp") and euro ("eur"). historically, we used foreign exchange currency option agreements to hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates on certain of our foreign investments. as of december 31, 2013, we did not hold any derivative hedging instruments related to our foreign currency exposure. 71risk factors 12 risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "hilton worldwide," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these hotels, resorts and rooms, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest and the remaining hotels, resorts and rooms are owned by our third-party owners. investment funds associated with or designated by the blackstone group l.p. and their affiliates, our current majority owners, are referred to herein as "blackstone" or "our sponsor." reference to "adr" or "average daily rate" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period and "revpar" or "revenue per available room" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for further discussion of these financial metrics. item 1. business overview hilton worldwide is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,322 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 715,062 rooms in 94 countries and territories as of december 31, 2014 . in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of 12 world-class brands. our flagship full-service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio also includes our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton, our full-service hotel brands, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites hotels, our focused-service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton hotels, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. more than 157,000 employees proudly serve in our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate offices around the world, and we have approximately 44 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors. we operate our business through three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. these complementary business segments enable us to capitalize on our strong brands, global market presence and significant 2 operational scale. through our management and franchise segment, which consists of 4,134 hotels with 649,314 rooms as of december 31, 2014 , we manage hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. our ownership segment consists of 144 hotels with 58,954 rooms as of december 31, 2014 in which we have an ownership interest or lease. through our timeshare segment, which consists of 44 properties comprising 6,794 units as of december 31, 2014 , we market and sell timeshare intervals, operate timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club and provide consumer financing. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which includes approximately 230,000 rooms scheduled to be opened in the future, all in our management and franchise segment. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 121,000 rooms, representing over half of our development pipeline, were under construction. the expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong brands and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton hhonors loyalty program. satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal initial capital investment, put us in a strong position to further improve our business. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2014 brand (1) segment countries/ territories hotels rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 12 26 10,653 1.5% ritz carlton, four seasons, peninsula, st. regis, mandarin oriental luxury 18 24 8,091 1.1% park hyatt, sofitel, intercontinental, jw marriott, fairmont upper upscale 83 560 201,047 28.1% marriott, sheraton, hyatt, radisson blu, renaissance, westin, sofitel, swissotel, m venpick upper upscale 1 5 3,170 0.4% autograph collection, luxury collection, ascend collection upscale 35 410 100,879 14.1% sheraton, marriott, crowne plaza, wyndham, radisson, moevenpick, hotel nikko, holiday inn, renaissance upper upscale 6 219 52,140 7.3% renaissance, sheraton, hyatt, residence inn by marriott upscale 22 618 86,095 12.0% courtyard by marriott, holiday inn, hyatt place, novotel, aloft, four points by sheraton upper midscale 16 2,005 198,914 27.8% fairfield inn by marriott, holiday inn express, comfort inn, quality inn, la quinta inns, wyngate by wyndham upscale 3 359 40,056 5.6% residence inn by marriott, hyatt house, staybridge suites, candlewood suites upper midscale 3 45 4,726 0.7% candlewood suites, americinn, towne place suites timeshare 4 44 6,794 1.0% marriott vacation club, starwood vacation ownership, hyatt residence, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes 7 unbranded hotels with 2,497 rooms, representing approximately 0.4 percent of total rooms. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 26 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services. 4 conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of 24 properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton represents a new hotel concept that has defined a more accessible lifestyle category, targeting the upper upscale price point segment. canopy represents an energizing, new hotel in the neighborhood offering simple, guest-directed service, thoughtful local choices and comfortable spaces. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture. as of february 12, 2015, two properties were already in the pipeline and letters of intent were signed for an additional 13 properties. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with 560 hotels and resorts in 83 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full-service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services. curio a collection by hilton : curio a collection by hilton is created for travelers who seek local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. curio is made up of a collection of hand-picked hotels that retain their unique identity but are able to leverage the many benefits of the hilton worldwide global platform, including our common reservation and customer care service and hilton hhonors guest loyalty program. as of december 31, 2014 , just six months after the launch of the brand, curio had 5 properties open, contributing 3,170 rooms to hilton's portfolio and signed franchise licensing or management agreements for 6 properties. as of february 12, 2015, letters of intent were signed for an additional 17 properties. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full-service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree's 410 hotels and resorts are united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and its iconic warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. embassy suites hotels : embassy suites comprises 219 upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive all of the amenities our properties have to offer at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale brand with 618 hotels that strives to ensure today's busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. from the serta perfect sleeper bed, to complimentary internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, hilton garden inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys. hampton hotels : hampton hotels are our moderately priced, upper midscale hotels with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel room accommodations and apartment style suites within one property. across our over 2,000 hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the hampton satisfaction guarantee. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton are our upscale, extended-stay hotels that feature residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. these 359 hotels provide the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton are upper midscale hotels that provide a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. each of the brand's 45 hotels offers complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations ("hgv") is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of our 44 club 5 properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our customer loyalty program hilton hhonors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of 12 brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,300 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other rewards. members also can transact with over 200 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 44 million members. our hilton hhonors members represented approximately 50 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues to us and our hotel owners of over $13 billion during the year ended december 31, 2014 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton hhonors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton hhonors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. our businesses we operate our business across three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 24 : "business segments" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 as of december 31, 2014 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total hotels rooms hotels rooms hotels rooms hotels rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 2 1,602 11 5,324 13 6,926 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 248 1 984 2 1,232 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 2 431 2 431 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,335 4 1,335 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 294 1 294 europe 1 191 2 705 1 256 4 1,152 middle east and africa 1 614 2 641 3 1,255 asia pacific 11 3,419 1 636 12 4,055 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 23 21,110 42 24,833 174 52,624 239 98,567 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 1,836 22 7,585 18 5,500 43 14,921 europe 71 18,425 54 15,909 27 7,568 152 41,902 middle east and africa 6 2,276 44 14,007 1 410 51 16,693 asia pacific 8 3,954 59 22,029 8 2,981 75 28,964 curio - a collection by hilton u.s. 1 998 4 2,172 5 3,170 doubletree by hilton u.s. 11 4,268 29 8,521 252 61,109 292 73,898 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 637 13 2,421 16 3,058 europe 13 3,848 41 7,161 54 11,009 middle east and africa 7 1,464 4 488 11 1,952 asia pacific 35 9,997 2 965 37 10,962 embassy suites hotels u.s. 10 2,523 42 11,118 159 36,576 211 50,217 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 653 5 1,270 8 1,923 hilton garden inn u.s. 2 290 2 246 542 73,988 546 74,524 americas (excluding u.s.) 6 808 24 3,683 30 4,491 europe 18 3,292 17 2,688 35 5,980 middle east and africa 1 180 1 180 asia pacific 6 920 6 920 hampton hotels u.s. 1 130 50 6,238 1,855 179,532 1,906 185,900 americas (excluding u.s.) 7 837 60 7,404 67 8,241 europe 7 1,091 24 3,610 31 4,701 asia pacific 1 72 1 72 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 28 3,173 314 34,960 342 38,133 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 224 15 1,699 17 1,923 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 43 4,502 43 4,502 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 97 1 127 2 224 other 3 1,272 4 1,225 7 2,497 lodging 144 58,954 526 153,634 3,608 495,680 4,278 708,268 hilton grand vacations 44 6,794 44 6,794 total 144 58,954 570 160,428 3,608 495,680 4,322 715,062 ____________ (1) includes hotels owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. 7 management and franchise through our management and franchise segment we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel and timeshare management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of each hotel's gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. as of december 31, 2014 , we managed 526 hotels with 153,634 rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels. the initial terms of our management agreements for full-service hotels typically are 20 years. in certain cases where we have entered into a franchise agreement as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full-service hotels. typically these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. in addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, as of december 31, 2014 , we provided management services for 44 timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and 144 owned, leased and joint venture hotels from which we recognized management fee revenues. franchising we franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. we do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained and consult with franchisees concerning certain aspects of hotel operations. we approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. in some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system. as of december 31, 2014 , there were 3,608 franchised hotels with 495,680 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton hhonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. our franchise agreements typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new construction and approximately 10 to 20 years for properties that are converted from other brands. at the expiration of the initial term, we may relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. 8 ownership we are one of the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties includes a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as new york city, london, san francisco, chicago, o paolo, sydney and tokyo. the portfolio includes iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including the hilton new york, hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. in recent years, we have expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners. we have focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we have developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property, and at many of our hotels we have renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. at certain of our hotels, we are evaluating options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use. an example of this is the april 2014 sale of a previously non-income producing parcel of land at the hilton hawaiian village that had previously been used as a loading dock, along with corresponding entitlements, in connection with a planned timeshare development project that will not require any capital investment by us. further, we have plans at the hilton new york to redevelop the hotel's retail platform to include over 10,000 square feet of street-level retail space and convert certain floors to timeshare units, which we expect will increase the value of the property. additionally, in february 2015, we completed the sale of the waldorf astoria new york for $1.95 billion and have entered into a management agreement with the buyer for a 100-year term. we used the proceeds from the sale of the waldorf astoria new york to acquire five properties for a total purchase price of $1.76 billion . timeshare our timeshare segment generates revenue from three primary sources: timeshare sales we market and sell timeshare interests owned by hilton and third parties. we also source timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. this allows us to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property. resort operations we manage the hgv club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. we generate rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under our hgv club program. we also earn revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties. financing we provide consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans. hgv's primary product is the marketing and selling of fee-simple timeshare interests deeded in perpetuity, developed either by us or by third parties. this ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the hgv club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of club points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the hgv system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to hilton hhonors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 5,000 resorts included in the rci timeshare vacation exchange network. in addition, we operate the hilton club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the hilton new york, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the hgv club. as of december 31, 2014 , hgv managed a global system of 44 resorts and the hgv club and the hilton club had more than 229,000 members in total. traditionally, timeshare operators have funded 100 percent of the investment necessary to acquire land and construct timeshare properties. in 2010, we began sourcing timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. these agreements enable us to generate fees from the sales and marketing of the timeshare intervals and club memberships and from the management of the timeshare properties without requiring us to fund acquisition and construction 9 costs. our supply of third-party developed timeshare intervals was approximately 109,000 , or 82 percent of our total supply, as of december 31, 2014 and the percentage of sales of timeshare intervals developed by third parties was 59 percent for the year ended december 31, 2014. competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor, owner and operator of hotels makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, fairmont raffles hotels international, hong kong and shanghai hotels, limited, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, m venpick hotels and resorts, starwood hotels &amp; resorts worldwide and wyndham worldwide corporation. in the timeshare business, we compete with other hotel and resort timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use and opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards. in addition, we compete based on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as with national and independent timeshare resale companies and owners reselling existing timeshare intervals, which could reduce demand or prices for sales of new timeshare intervals. our primary competitors in the timeshare space include hyatt residence club, marriott vacations worldwide corp., starwood vacation ownership and wyndham vacation resorts. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters, with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result, in an environment of declining revenues the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. the vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. 10 government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employee, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in 94 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws, tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. in addition to our hotel accommodations, we operate a number of laundry facilities located in certain areas where we have multiple properties. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of wastes that we generate, including at locations where such wastes have been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination, or pursuant to our management or franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and operated properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. insurance we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers' compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned hotels. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks. these policies provide 11 coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insured retentions or deductibles. our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners or, if not participating, must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. non-u.s. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. all other insurance programs purchased by hotel owners must meet our requirements. in addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of our hotels. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1946 when our subsidiary hilton hotels corporation, later renamed hilton worldwide, inc., was incorporated in delaware. employees as of december 31, 2014 , more than 157,000 people were employed at our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate locations. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 30 percent of our employees globally (or 31 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including energy, food, employee compensation and benefits and insurance; increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in tax and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; 12 the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the quality of services provided by franchisees; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture agreements; cyclical over-building in the hotel and timeshare industries; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or timeshare resorts in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services (including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services) and vacation ownership services and products; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at properties that we manage, franchise, own, lease or develop, as well as demand for timeshare properties. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; 13 conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) and h1n1 (swine flu); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; and organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned properties, limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and reducing overall demand for timeshare intervals. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels and timeshare properties decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full-service and focused-service hotels and timeshare properties, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators and independent timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. 14 competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively. competition for management and franchise agreements we compete to enter into management and franchise agreements. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. competition for timeshare sales we compete with other timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use, opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards as well as brand name recognition and reputation. our ability to attract and retain purchasers of timeshare intervals depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our timeshare offerings from those offered by others. if we are unable to do so, our ability to compete effectively for sales of timeshare intervals could be adversely affected. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events at our managed, owned, leased or timeshare properties can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the recent expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity. we also could face legal claims related to negative events, along with resulting adverse publicity. if the perceived quality of our brands declines, or if our reputation is damaged, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. our management and franchise business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party hotel owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise agreements, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new and renew management and franchise agreements. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, 15 including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise agreements, and enter into new agreements on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our management and franchise business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise agreements, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. a repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise agreement or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, as well as result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline. if third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise agreements require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands. this includes requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise agreements require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a hotel owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. 16 the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. we own or lease a substantial amount of real property, which subjects us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; loss in value of real estate due to changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located; increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned properties because we, as the owner, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed more than a century ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. 17 our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements, including certain of our iconic and most profitable properties. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third-party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. our timeshare business is subject to risks associated with regulation, third-party owners and providing financing to purchasers. the timeshare business is subject to extensive regulation. we develop, manage, market and sell timeshare intervals. certain of these activities are subject to extensive state regulation in both the state in which the timeshare property is located and the states in which the timeshare property is marketed and sold. federal regulation of certain marketing practices also applies. in addition, because we provide financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals and also service the resulting loans as well as the loans on inventory sold by third-party developers for which we provide marketing services, we are subject to various federal and state regulations, including those requiring disclosure to borrowers regarding the terms of their loans as well as settlement, servicing and collection of loans. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws in connection with our timeshare business, we may be unable to offer timeshare intervals or associated financing in certain areas, which could result in a decline in timeshare revenues. 18 a decline in timeshare interval inventory or our failure to enter into and maintain timeshare management agreements may have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition to timeshare interval supply from our owned timeshare properties, we source interval supply through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. if we fail to develop timeshare properties or are unsuccessful in entering into new agreements with third-party developers, we may experience a decline in timeshare interval supply available to be sold by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. in addition, a decline in timeshare interval supply could result in both a decrease of financing revenues that are generated from purchasers of timeshare intervals and fee revenues that are generated by providing management, loan and collection services to the timeshare properties. if purchasers default on the loans that we provide to finance their purchases of timeshare intervals, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. providing secured financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals subjects us to the risk of purchaser default. as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately $1,024 million of timeshare financing receivables outstanding. if a purchaser defaults under the financing that we provide, we could be forced to write off the loan and reclaim ownership of the timeshare interval. we may be unable to resell the property in a timely manner or at the same price, or at all. also, if a purchaser of a timeshare interval defaults on the related loan during the early part of the amortization period, we may not have recovered the marketing, selling and general and administrative costs associated with the sale of that timeshare interval. if we are unable to recover any of the principal amount of the loan from a defaulting purchaser, or if the allowances for losses from such defaults are inadequate, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2014 , we had a total of 1,351 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing, obtaining governmental or regulatory approvals and adequate financing. as a result, our entire development pipeline may not develop into new hotels that enter our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we introduced our newest brand, canopy by hilton, in october 2014, opened our first curio - a collection by hilton hotel in august 2014, opened the first herb n' kitchen restaurant in 2013, opened our first home2 suites by hilton hotel in 2011 and launched the eforea: spa at hilton brand in 2010. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states in recent years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton hhonors customer loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we move production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential 19 problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are difficult to detect for long periods of time, and we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. for example, in 2011 we were notified by epsilon, our database marketing vendor, that we were among a group of companies served by epsilon that were affected by a data breach that resulted in an unauthorized third party gaining access to epsilon's files that included names and e-mails of certain of our customers. since this notification we have been subject to additional cyber-attacks and data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. in addition, states and the federal government have recently enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure 20 on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we may also divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu member states' implementation of proposed privacy regulation, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. 21 the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. if these bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. although our agreements with many of these intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites. internet travel intermediaries also have recently been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual consumers or "transient" business rather than group and convention business, they have recently expanded their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and convention business. consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, and the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online or by telephone to our call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton hhonors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton hhonors guest loyalty and rewards program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise agreements. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the guest's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton hhonors arranges with third-party service providers, such as airlines and rail companies, to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton hhonors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 94 countries and territories around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 25 percent of our revenues for each of the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 . we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; 22 recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues from and the market value of our properties located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we own or manage in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. 23 under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of blackstone, affiliates of blackstone may also be considered our affiliates. other affiliates of blackstone have in the past and may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference herein. disclosure of such activities and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 30 percent) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately nine percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. 24 labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage, and engage employees. we employ or manage approximately 157,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to manage and staff the managed, owned and leased hotels could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have over 4,900 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other intellectual property. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; 25 require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions. however, these hedging agreements may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses vary, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the program ) to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2020, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. 26 terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2006 and october 24, 2007 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton hhonors guest loyalty and reward program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $696 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. additionally, during 2014, the irs commenced its audit of tax years december 2007 through 2010. see note 19 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. additionally, in 2013, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), issued a revised exposure draft outlining proposed 27 changes to current lease accounting in fasb accounting standards codification topic 840, leases . the proposed accounting standards update, if ultimately adopted in its current form, could result in significant changes to current accounting, including the capitalization of leases on the balance sheet that currently are recorded off-balance sheet as operating leases. while this change would not affect the cash flow related to our leased hotels and other leased assets, it could adversely affect our balance sheet and could therefore affect our ability to raise financing from banks or other sources. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. in addition, the national labor relations board may revise its standard for joint employee relationships, which could increase our risk of being considered a joint employer with our franchisees. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 28 foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise agreement or negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. under the terms of the settlement, until march 2015 we must: ensure compliance with ada regulations at our owned and joint venture (in which we own more than a 50 percent interest) properties built after january 26, 1993; require owners of managed or franchised hotels built after january 26, 1993 that enter into a new management or franchise agreement, experience a change in ownership, or renew or extend a management or franchise agreement, to conduct a survey of its facilities and to certify that the hotel complies with the ada; ensure that new hotels constructed in our system are compliant with ada regulations; provide ada training to our employees; improve the accessibility of our websites and reservations system for individuals with disabilities; appoint a national ada compliance officer; and appoint an ada contact on-site at each hotel. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada and our related consent decree, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects which could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 29 casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic conditions; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including puerto rico and egypt have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2014 , our total indebtedness was approximately $11.7 billion , including $879 million of non-recourse debt, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt and non-recourse debt for the years ending december 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively, were $136 million , $238 million and $355 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; 30 exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indenture that governs our senior notes, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the agreements that govern our commercial mortgage-backed securities loan impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after june 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 25 percent of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.9 to 1.0. our subsidiaries' mortgage-backed loans also require them to maintain certain debt service coverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future 31 indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding two risk factors would increase. risks related to ownership of our common stock our sponsor and its affiliates control us and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future. our sponsor and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 55.3 percent of our common stock as of february 9, 2015. moreover, under our bylaws and the stockholders' agreement with our sponsor and its affiliates, for so long as our existing owners and their affiliates retain significant ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by our sponsor, whom we refer to as the "sponsor directors." even when our sponsor and its affiliates cease to own shares of our stock representing a majority of the total voting power, for so long as our sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock our sponsor will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, during that period of time, our sponsor will have significant influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. in particular, for so long as our sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, our sponsor will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. our sponsor and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in real estate generally and in the hospitality industry in particular. in the ordinary course of their business activities, our sponsor and its affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our stockholders. for example, our sponsor owns interests in extended stay america, inc. and la quinta holdings inc., and certain other investments in the hotel industry that compete directly or indirectly with us. in addition, affiliates of our sponsor directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel or timeshare development projects, that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of our sponsor, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any 32 non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his or her director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. our sponsor also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may be unavailable to us. in addition, blackstone may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of new york stock exchange ("nyse") rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to those requirements. affiliates of our sponsor control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. as a result, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of nyse corporate governance standards. under these rules, a "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance standards such as requirements that within one year of the date of nyse listing, a company have: a board that is composed of a majority of "independent directors," as defined under nyse rules; a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we do not have a majority of independent directors on our board. in addition, although we have a fully independent audit committee and have independent director representation on our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees, our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. we intend to continue to utilize these "controlled company" exemptions. accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the nyse corporate governance requirements. because we do not currently pay any cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than what you paid for it. we do not currently pay any cash dividends on our common stock. the declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by our senior secured credit facility and our senior notes and may be limited by covenants of other indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. as a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than what you paid for it. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by our pre-ipo investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. after the expiration or earlier waiver or termination of the lock-up period described below, substantially all of the outstanding shares of our common stock will be available for resale in the public market. registration of the sale of these shares of our common stock would permit their sale into the market immediately. the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. in addition, our sponsor has pledged substantially all of the shares of our common stock held by it pursuant to a margin loan agreement and any foreclosure upon those shares could result in sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, which could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. pursuant to a registration rights agreement, we have granted our sponsor and certain management stockholders the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares represented approximately 56.1 percent of our outstanding common stock as of 33 february 9, 2015. these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. former members of hilton global holdings llc ("hgh"), including our sponsor, who received, in the aggregate, approximately 829,481,530 shares of our common stock from hgh in connection with our initial public offering are currently prohibited from transferring one third of the shares they received (approximately 276,493,843 shares) until june 11, 2015; however, these transfer restrictions are subject to certain exceptions and may be waived, modified or amended at any time. as restrictions on resale end, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. these factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities. as of february 9, 2015, we had 7,197,925 of equity-based awards to be issued upon vesting or exercise of outstanding options and an aggregate of 72,792,531 shares of common stock available for future issuance under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan. we filed a registration statement on form s-8 under the securities act to register shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our 2013 omnibus incentive plan. accordingly, shares registered under such registration statements will be available for sale in the open market. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which the parties to our stockholders agreement cease to beneficially own at least 40 percent of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 item 8 financial statements and supplementary data 71 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures 132 item 9a. controls and procedures 132 item 9b. other information 132 part iii 133 item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 133 item 11. executive compensation 133 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 133 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence 133 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 133 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 134 signatures 137 1 part i forward -looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the "securities act") and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "exchange act"). these statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to our expectations regarding the performance of our business, our financial results, our liquidity and capital resources and other non-historical statements. in some cases, you can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "outlook," "believes," "expects," "potential," "continues," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seeks," "approximately," "projects," "predicts," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates" or the negative version of these words or other comparable words. such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, among others, risks inherent to the hospitality industry, macroeconomic factors beyond our control, competition for hotel guests, management and franchise agreements and timeshare sales, risks related to doing business with third-party hotel owners, our significant investments in owned and leased real estate, performance of our information technology systems, growth of reservation channels outside of our system, risks of doing business outside of the united states and our indebtedness. accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. we believe these factors include but are not limited to those described under "part i item 1a. risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "hilton worldwide," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these hotels, resorts and rooms, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest and the remaining hotels, resorts and rooms are owned by our third-party owners. investment funds associated with or designated by the blackstone group l.p. and their affiliates, our current majority owners, are referred to herein as "blackstone" or "our sponsor." reference to "adr" or "average daily rate" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period and "revpar" or "revenue per available room" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for further discussion of these financial metrics. item 1. business overview hilton worldwide is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,322 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 715,062 rooms in 94 countries and territories as of december 31, 2014 . in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of 12 world-class brands. our flagship full-service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio also includes our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton, our full-service hotel brands, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites hotels, our focused-service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton hotels, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. more than 157,000 employees proudly serve in our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate offices around the world, and we have approximately 44 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors. we operate our business through three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. these complementary business segments enable us to capitalize on our strong brands, global market presence and significant 2 operational scale. through our management and franchise segment, which consists of 4,134 hotels with 649,314 rooms as of december 31, 2014 , we manage hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. our ownership segment consists of 144 hotels with 58,954 rooms as of december 31, 2014 in which we have an ownership interest or lease. through our timeshare segment, which consists of 44 properties comprising 6,794 units as of december 31, 2014 , we market and sell timeshare intervals, operate timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club and provide consumer financing. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which includes approximately 230,000 rooms scheduled to be opened in the future, all in our management and franchise segment. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 121,000 rooms, representing over half of our development pipeline, were under construction. the expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong brands and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton hhonors loyalty program. satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal initial capital investment, put us in a strong position to further improve our business. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2014 brand (1) segment countries/ territories hotels rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 12 26 10,653 1.5% ritz carlton, four seasons, peninsula, st. regis, mandarin oriental luxury 18 24 8,091 1.1% park hyatt, sofitel, intercontinental, jw marriott, fairmont upper upscale 83 560 201,047 28.1% marriott, sheraton, hyatt, radisson blu, renaissance, westin, sofitel, swissotel, m venpick upper upscale 1 5 3,170 0.4% autograph collection, luxury collection, ascend collection upscale 35 410 100,879 14.1% sheraton, marriott, crowne plaza, wyndham, radisson, moevenpick, hotel nikko, holiday inn, renaissance upper upscale 6 219 52,140 7.3% renaissance, sheraton, hyatt, residence inn by marriott upscale 22 618 86,095 12.0% courtyard by marriott, holiday inn, hyatt place, novotel, aloft, four points by sheraton upper midscale 16 2,005 198,914 27.8% fairfield inn by marriott, holiday inn express, comfort inn, quality inn, la quinta inns, wyngate by wyndham upscale 3 359 40,056 5.6% residence inn by marriott, hyatt house, staybridge suites, candlewood suites upper midscale 3 45 4,726 0.7% candlewood suites, americinn, towne place suites timeshare 4 44 6,794 1.0% marriott vacation club, starwood vacation ownership, hyatt residence, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes 7 unbranded hotels with 2,497 rooms, representing approximately 0.4 percent of total rooms. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 26 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services. 4 conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of 24 properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton represents a new hotel concept that has defined a more accessible lifestyle category, targeting the upper upscale price point segment. canopy represents an energizing, new hotel in the neighborhood offering simple, guest-directed service, thoughtful local choices and comfortable spaces. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture. as of february 12, 2015, two properties were already in the pipeline and letters of intent were signed for an additional 13 properties. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with 560 hotels and resorts in 83 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full-service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services. curio a collection by hilton : curio a collection by hilton is created for travelers who seek local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. curio is made up of a collection of hand-picked hotels that retain their unique identity but are able to leverage the many benefits of the hilton worldwide global platform, including our common reservation and customer care service and hilton hhonors guest loyalty program. as of december 31, 2014 , just six months after the launch of the brand, curio had 5 properties open, contributing 3,170 rooms to hilton's portfolio and signed franchise licensing or management agreements for 6 properties. as of february 12, 2015, letters of intent were signed for an additional 17 properties. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full-service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree's 410 hotels and resorts are united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and its iconic warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. embassy suites hotels : embassy suites comprises 219 upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive all of the amenities our properties have to offer at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale brand with 618 hotels that strives to ensure today's busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. from the serta perfect sleeper bed, to complimentary internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, hilton garden inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys. hampton hotels : hampton hotels are our moderately priced, upper midscale hotels with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel room accommodations and apartment style suites within one property. across our over 2,000 hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the hampton satisfaction guarantee. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton are our upscale, extended-stay hotels that feature residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. these 359 hotels provide the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton are upper midscale hotels that provide a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. each of the brand's 45 hotels offers complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations ("hgv") is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of our 44 club 5 properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our customer loyalty program hilton hhonors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of 12 brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,300 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other rewards. members also can transact with over 200 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 44 million members. our hilton hhonors members represented approximately 50 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues to us and our hotel owners of over $13 billion during the year ended december 31, 2014 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton hhonors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton hhonors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. our businesses we operate our business across three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 24 : "business segments" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 as of december 31, 2014 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total hotels rooms hotels rooms hotels rooms hotels rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 2 1,602 11 5,324 13 6,926 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 248 1 984 2 1,232 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 2 431 2 431 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,335 4 1,335 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 294 1 294 europe 1 191 2 705 1 256 4 1,152 middle east and africa 1 614 2 641 3 1,255 asia pacific 11 3,419 1 636 12 4,055 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 23 21,110 42 24,833 174 52,624 239 98,567 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 1,836 22 7,585 18 5,500 43 14,921 europe 71 18,425 54 15,909 27 7,568 152 41,902 middle east and africa 6 2,276 44 14,007 1 410 51 16,693 asia pacific 8 3,954 59 22,029 8 2,981 75 28,964 curio - a collection by hilton u.s. 1 998 4 2,172 5 3,170 doubletree by hilton u.s. 11 4,268 29 8,521 252 61,109 292 73,898 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 637 13 2,421 16 3,058 europe 13 3,848 41 7,161 54 11,009 middle east and africa 7 1,464 4 488 11 1,952 asia pacific 35 9,997 2 965 37 10,962 embassy suites hotels u.s. 10 2,523 42 11,118 159 36,576 211 50,217 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 653 5 1,270 8 1,923 hilton garden inn u.s. 2 290 2 246 542 73,988 546 74,524 americas (excluding u.s.) 6 808 24 3,683 30 4,491 europe 18 3,292 17 2,688 35 5,980 middle east and africa 1 180 1 180 asia pacific 6 920 6 920 hampton hotels u.s. 1 130 50 6,238 1,855 179,532 1,906 185,900 americas (excluding u.s.) 7 837 60 7,404 67 8,241 europe 7 1,091 24 3,610 31 4,701 asia pacific 1 72 1 72 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 28 3,173 314 34,960 342 38,133 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 224 15 1,699 17 1,923 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 43 4,502 43 4,502 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 97 1 127 2 224 other 3 1,272 4 1,225 7 2,497 lodging 144 58,954 526 153,634 3,608 495,680 4,278 708,268 hilton grand vacations 44 6,794 44 6,794 total 144 58,954 570 160,428 3,608 495,680 4,322 715,062 ____________ (1) includes hotels owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. 7 management and franchise through our management and franchise segment we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel and timeshare management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of each hotel's gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. as of december 31, 2014 , we managed 526 hotels with 153,634 rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels. the initial terms of our management agreements for full-service hotels typically are 20 years. in certain cases where we have entered into a franchise agreement as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full-service hotels. typically these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. in addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, as of december 31, 2014 , we provided management services for 44 timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and 144 owned, leased and joint venture hotels from which we recognized management fee revenues. franchising we franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. we do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained and consult with franchisees concerning certain aspects of hotel operations. we approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. in some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system. as of december 31, 2014 , there were 3,608 franchised hotels with 495,680 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton hhonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. our franchise agreements typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new construction and approximately 10 to 20 years for properties that are converted from other brands. at the expiration of the initial term, we may relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. 8 ownership we are one of the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties includes a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as new york city, london, san francisco, chicago, o paolo, sydney and tokyo. the portfolio includes iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including the hilton new york, hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. in recent years, we have expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners. we have focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we have developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property, and at many of our hotels we have renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. at certain of our hotels, we are evaluating options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use. an example of this is the april 2014 sale of a previously non-income producing parcel of land at the hilton hawaiian village that had previously been used as a loading dock, along with corresponding entitlements, in connection with a planned timeshare development project that will not require any capital investment by us. further, we have plans at the hilton new york to redevelop the hotel's retail platform to include over 10,000 square feet of street-level retail space and convert certain floors to timeshare units, which we expect will increase the value of the property. additionally, in february 2015, we completed the sale of the waldorf astoria new york for $1.95 billion and have entered into a management agreement with the buyer for a 100-year term. we used the proceeds from the sale of the waldorf astoria new york to acquire five properties for a total purchase price of $1.76 billion . timeshare our timeshare segment generates revenue from three primary sources: timeshare sales we market and sell timeshare interests owned by hilton and third parties. we also source timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. this allows us to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property. resort operations we manage the hgv club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. we generate rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under our hgv club program. we also earn revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties. financing we provide consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans. hgv's primary product is the marketing and selling of fee-simple timeshare interests deeded in perpetuity, developed either by us or by third parties. this ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the hgv club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of club points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the hgv system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to hilton hhonors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 5,000 resorts included in the rci timeshare vacation exchange network. in addition, we operate the hilton club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the hilton new york, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the hgv club. as of december 31, 2014 , hgv managed a global system of 44 resorts and the hgv club and the hilton club had more than 229,000 members in total. traditionally, timeshare operators have funded 100 percent of the investment necessary to acquire land and construct timeshare properties. in 2010, we began sourcing timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. these agreements enable us to generate fees from the sales and marketing of the timeshare intervals and club memberships and from the management of the timeshare properties without requiring us to fund acquisition and construction 9 costs. our supply of third-party developed timeshare intervals was approximately 109,000 , or 82 percent of our total supply, as of december 31, 2014 and the percentage of sales of timeshare intervals developed by third parties was 59 percent for the year ended december 31, 2014. competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor, owner and operator of hotels makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, fairmont raffles hotels international, hong kong and shanghai hotels, limited, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, m venpick hotels and resorts, starwood hotels &amp; resorts worldwide and wyndham worldwide corporation. in the timeshare business, we compete with other hotel and resort timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use and opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards. in addition, we compete based on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as with national and independent timeshare resale companies and owners reselling existing timeshare intervals, which could reduce demand or prices for sales of new timeshare intervals. our primary competitors in the timeshare space include hyatt residence club, marriott vacations worldwide corp., starwood vacation ownership and wyndham vacation resorts. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters, with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result, in an environment of declining revenues the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. the vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. 10 government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employee, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in 94 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws, tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. in addition to our hotel accommodations, we operate a number of laundry facilities located in certain areas where we have multiple properties. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of wastes that we generate, including at locations where such wastes have been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination, or pursuant to our management or franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and operated properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. insurance we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers' compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned hotels. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks. these policies provide 11 coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insured retentions or deductibles. our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners or, if not participating, must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. non-u.s. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. all other insurance programs purchased by hotel owners must meet our requirements. in addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of our hotels. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1946 when our subsidiary hilton hotels corporation, later renamed hilton worldwide, inc., was incorporated in delaware. employees as of december 31, 2014 , more than 157,000 people were employed at our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate locations. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 30 percent of our employees globally (or 31 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including energy, food, employee compensation and benefits and insurance; increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in tax and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; 12 the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the quality of services provided by franchisees; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture agreements; cyclical over-building in the hotel and timeshare industries; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or timeshare resorts in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services (including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services) and vacation ownership services and products; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at properties that we manage, franchise, own, lease or develop, as well as demand for timeshare properties. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; 13 conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) and h1n1 (swine flu); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; and organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned properties, limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and reducing overall demand for timeshare intervals. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels and timeshare properties decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full-service and focused-service hotels and timeshare properties, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators and independent timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. 14 competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively. competition for management and franchise agreements we compete to enter into management and franchise agreements. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. competition for timeshare sales we compete with other timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use, opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards as well as brand name recognition and reputation. our ability to attract and retain purchasers of timeshare intervals depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our timeshare offerings from those offered by others. if we are unable to do so, our ability to compete effectively for sales of timeshare intervals could be adversely affected. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events at our managed, owned, leased or timeshare properties can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the recent expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity. we also could face legal claims related to negative events, along with resulting adverse publicity. if the perceived quality of our brands declines, or if our reputation is damaged, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. our management and franchise business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party hotel owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise agreements, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new and renew management and franchise agreements. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, 15 including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise agreements, and enter into new agreements on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our management and franchise business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise agreements, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. a repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise agreement or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, as well as result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline. if third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise agreements require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands. this includes requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise agreements require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a hotel owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. 16 the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. we own or lease a substantial amount of real property, which subjects us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; loss in value of real estate due to changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located; increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned properties because we, as the owner, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed more than a century ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. 17 our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements, including certain of our iconic and most profitable properties. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third-party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. our timeshare business is subject to risks associated with regulation, third-party owners and providing financing to purchasers. the timeshare business is subject to extensive regulation. we develop, manage, market and sell timeshare intervals. certain of these activities are subject to extensive state regulation in both the state in which the timeshare property is located and the states in which the timeshare property is marketed and sold. federal regulation of certain marketing practices also applies. in addition, because we provide financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals and also service the resulting loans as well as the loans on inventory sold by third-party developers for which we provide marketing services, we are subject to various federal and state regulations, including those requiring disclosure to borrowers regarding the terms of their loans as well as settlement, servicing and collection of loans. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws in connection with our timeshare business, we may be unable to offer timeshare intervals or associated financing in certain areas, which could result in a decline in timeshare revenues. 18 a decline in timeshare interval inventory or our failure to enter into and maintain timeshare management agreements may have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition to timeshare interval supply from our owned timeshare properties, we source interval supply through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. if we fail to develop timeshare properties or are unsuccessful in entering into new agreements with third-party developers, we may experience a decline in timeshare interval supply available to be sold by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. in addition, a decline in timeshare interval supply could result in both a decrease of financing revenues that are generated from purchasers of timeshare intervals and fee revenues that are generated by providing management, loan and collection services to the timeshare properties. if purchasers default on the loans that we provide to finance their purchases of timeshare intervals, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. providing secured financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals subjects us to the risk of purchaser default. as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately $1,024 million of timeshare financing receivables outstanding. if a purchaser defaults under the financing that we provide, we could be forced to write off the loan and reclaim ownership of the timeshare interval. we may be unable to resell the property in a timely manner or at the same price, or at all. also, if a purchaser of a timeshare interval defaults on the related loan during the early part of the amortization period, we may not have recovered the marketing, selling and general and administrative costs associated with the sale of that timeshare interval. if we are unable to recover any of the principal amount of the loan from a defaulting purchaser, or if the allowances for losses from such defaults are inadequate, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2014 , we had a total of 1,351 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing, obtaining governmental or regulatory approvals and adequate financing. as a result, our entire development pipeline may not develop into new hotels that enter our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we introduced our newest brand, canopy by hilton, in october 2014, opened our first curio - a collection by hilton hotel in august 2014, opened the first herb n' kitchen restaurant in 2013, opened our first home2 suites by hilton hotel in 2011 and launched the eforea: spa at hilton brand in 2010. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states in recent years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton hhonors customer loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we move production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential 19 problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are difficult to detect for long periods of time, and we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. for example, in 2011 we were notified by epsilon, our database marketing vendor, that we were among a group of companies served by epsilon that were affected by a data breach that resulted in an unauthorized third party gaining access to epsilon's files that included names and e-mails of certain of our customers. since this notification we have been subject to additional cyber-attacks and data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. in addition, states and the federal government have recently enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure 20 on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we may also divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu member states' implementation of proposed privacy regulation, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. 21 the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. if these bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. although our agreements with many of these intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites. internet travel intermediaries also have recently been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual consumers or "transient" business rather than group and convention business, they have recently expanded their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and convention business. consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, and the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online or by telephone to our call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton hhonors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton hhonors guest loyalty and rewards program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise agreements. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the guest's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton hhonors arranges with third-party service providers, such as airlines and rail companies, to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton hhonors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 94 countries and territories around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 25 percent of our revenues for each of the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 . we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; 22 recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues from and the market value of our properties located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we own or manage in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. 23 under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of blackstone, affiliates of blackstone may also be considered our affiliates. other affiliates of blackstone have in the past and may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference herein. disclosure of such activities and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 30 percent) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately nine percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. 24 labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage, and engage employees. we employ or manage approximately 157,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to manage and staff the managed, owned and leased hotels could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have over 4,900 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other intellectual property. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; 25 require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions. however, these hedging agreements may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses vary, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the program ) to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2020, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. 26 terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2006 and october 24, 2007 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton hhonors guest loyalty and reward program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $696 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. additionally, during 2014, the irs commenced its audit of tax years december 2007 through 2010. see note 19 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. additionally, in 2013, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), issued a revised exposure draft outlining proposed 27 changes to current lease accounting in fasb accounting standards codification topic 840, leases . the proposed accounting standards update, if ultimately adopted in its current form, could result in significant changes to current accounting, including the capitalization of leases on the balance sheet that currently are recorded off-balance sheet as operating leases. while this change would not affect the cash flow related to our leased hotels and other leased assets, it could adversely affect our balance sheet and could therefore affect our ability to raise financing from banks or other sources. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. in addition, the national labor relations board may revise its standard for joint employee relationships, which could increase our risk of being considered a joint employer with our franchisees. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 28 foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise agreement or negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. under the terms of the settlement, until march 2015 we must: ensure compliance with ada regulations at our owned and joint venture (in which we own more than a 50 percent interest) properties built after january 26, 1993; require owners of managed or franchised hotels built after january 26, 1993 that enter into a new management or franchise agreement, experience a change in ownership, or renew or extend a management or franchise agreement, to conduct a survey of its facilities and to certify that the hotel complies with the ada; ensure that new hotels constructed in our system are compliant with ada regulations; provide ada training to our employees; improve the accessibility of our websites and reservations system for individuals with disabilities; appoint a national ada compliance officer; and appoint an ada contact on-site at each hotel. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada and our related consent decree, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects which could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 29 casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic conditions; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including puerto rico and egypt have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2014 , our total indebtedness was approximately $11.7 billion , including $879 million of non-recourse debt, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt and non-recourse debt for the years ending december 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively, were $136 million , $238 million and $355 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; 30 exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indenture that governs our senior notes, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the agreements that govern our commercial mortgage-backed securities loan impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after june 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 25 percent of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.9 to 1.0. our subsidiaries' mortgage-backed loans also require them to maintain certain debt service coverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future 31 indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding two risk factors would increase. risks related to ownership of our common stock our sponsor and its affiliates control us and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future. our sponsor and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 55.3 percent of our common stock as of february 9, 2015. moreover, under our bylaws and the stockholders' agreement with our sponsor and its affiliates, for so long as our existing owners and their affiliates retain significant ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by our sponsor, whom we refer to as the "sponsor directors." even when our sponsor and its affiliates cease to own shares of our stock representing a majority of the total voting power, for so long as our sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock our sponsor will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, during that period of time, our sponsor will have significant influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. in particular, for so long as our sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, our sponsor will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. our sponsor and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in real estate generally and in the hospitality industry in particular. in the ordinary course of their business activities, our sponsor and its affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our stockholders. for example, our sponsor owns interests in extended stay america, inc. and la quinta holdings inc., and certain other investments in the hotel industry that compete directly or indirectly with us. in addition, affiliates of our sponsor directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel or timeshare development projects, that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of our sponsor, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any 32 non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his or her director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. our sponsor also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may be unavailable to us. in addition, blackstone may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of new york stock exchange ("nyse") rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to those requirements. affiliates of our sponsor control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. as a result, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of nyse corporate governance standards. under these rules, a "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance standards such as requirements that within one year of the date of nyse listing, a company have: a board that is composed of a majority of "independent directors," as defined under nyse rules; a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. we do not have a majority of independent directors on our board. in addition, although we have a fully independent audit committee and have independent director representation on our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees, our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. we intend to continue to utilize these "controlled company" exemptions. accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the nyse corporate governance requirements. because we do not currently pay any cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than what you paid for it. we do not currently pay any cash dividends on our common stock. the declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by our senior secured credit facility and our senior notes and may be limited by covenants of other indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. as a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than what you paid for it. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by our pre-ipo investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. after the expiration or earlier waiver or termination of the lock-up period described below, substantially all of the outstanding shares of our common stock will be available for resale in the public market. registration of the sale of these shares of our common stock would permit their sale into the market immediately. the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. in addition, our sponsor has pledged substantially all of the shares of our common stock held by it pursuant to a margin loan agreement and any foreclosure upon those shares could result in sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, which could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. pursuant to a registration rights agreement, we have granted our sponsor and certain management stockholders the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares represented approximately 56.1 percent of our outstanding common stock as of 33 february 9, 2015. these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. former members of hilton global holdings llc ("hgh"), including our sponsor, who received, in the aggregate, approximately 829,481,530 shares of our common stock from hgh in connection with our initial public offering are currently prohibited from transferring one third of the shares they received (approximately 276,493,843 shares) until june 11, 2015; however, these transfer restrictions are subject to certain exceptions and may be waived, modified or amended at any time. as restrictions on resale end, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. these factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities. as of february 9, 2015, we had 7,197,925 of equity-based awards to be issued upon vesting or exercise of outstanding options and an aggregate of 72,792,531 shares of common stock available for future issuance under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan. we filed a registration statement on form s-8 under the securities act to register shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our 2013 omnibus incentive plan. accordingly, shares registered under such registration statements will be available for sale in the open market. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which the parties to our stockholders agreement cease to beneficially own at least 40 percent of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. 34 item 2. properties hotel properties owned or controlled hotels as of december 31, 2014 , we owned a majority or controlling financial interest in the following 52 hotels, representing 28,156 rooms. property location rooms ownership waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts the waldorf astoria new york (1) new york, ny, usa 1,413 100% hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton hawaiian village beach resort &amp; spa honolulu, hi, usa 2,860 100% hilton new york new york, ny, usa 1,985 100% hilton san francisco union square san francisco, ca, usa 1,915 100% hilton new orleans riverside new orleans, la, usa 1,622 100% hilton chicago chicago, il, usa 1,544 100% hilton waikoloa village waikoloa, hi, usa 1,241 100% caribe hilton san juan, puerto rico 915 100% hilton chicago o'hare airport chicago, il, usa 860 100% hilton orlando lake buena vista orlando, fl, usa 814 100% hilton boston logan airport boston, ma, usa 599 100% hilton sydney sydney, australia 579 100% pointe hilton squaw peak resort phoenix, az, usa 563 100% hilton miami airport miami, fl, usa 508 100% hilton atlanta airport atlanta, ga, usa 507 100% hilton o paulo morumbi o paulo, brazil 503 100% hilton mclean tysons corner mclean, va, usa 458 100% hilton seattle airport &amp; conference center seattle, wa, usa 396 100% hilton oakland airport oakland, ca, usa 359 100% hilton paris orly airport paris, france 340 100% hilton durban durban, south africa 324 100% hilton new orleans airport kenner, la, usa 317 100% hilton short hills short hills, nj, usa 304 100% hilton amsterdam airport schiphol schiphol, netherlands 277 100% hilton blackpool blackpool, united kingdom 274 100% hilton rotterdam rotterdam, netherlands 254 100% hilton suites chicago/oak brook oakbrook terrace, il, usa 211 100% hilton belfast belfast, united kingdom 198 100% hilton london islington london, united kingdom 190 100% hilton edinburgh grosvenor edinburgh, united kingdom 184 100% hilton coylumbridge coylumbridge, united kingdom 175 100% hilton bath city bath, united kingdom 173 100% hilton nuremberg nuremberg, germany 152 100% hilton milton keynes milton keynes, united kingdom 138 100% hilton templepatrick hotel &amp; country club templepatrick, united kingdom 129 100% hilton sheffield sheffield, united kingdom 128 100% doubletree by hilton doubletree hotel crystal city national airport arlington, va, usa 631 100% doubletree hotel san jose san jose, ca, usa 505 100% doubletree hotel ontario airport ontario, ca, usa 482 67% doubletree spokane city center spokane, wa, usa 375 10% fess parker's doubletree resort santa barbara santa barbara, ca, usa 360 50% 35 property location rooms ownership embassy suites hotels embassy suites washington d.c. washington, d.c., usa 318 100% embassy suites parsippany parsippany, nj, usa 274 100% embassy suites kansas city plaza kansas city, mo, usa 266 100% embassy suites austin downtown/town lake austin, tx, usa 259 100% embassy suites atlanta perimeter center atlanta, ga, usa 241 100% embassy suites san rafael marin county san rafael, ca, usa 235 100% embassy suites kansas city overland park overland park, ks, usa 199 100% embassy suites phoenix airport at 24th street phoenix, az, usa 182 100% hilton garden inn hilton garden inn lax/el segundo el segundo, ca, usa 162 100% hilton garden inn chicago/oak brook oakbrook terrace, il, usa 128 100% hampton hotels hampton inn &amp; suites memphis shady grove memphis, tn, usa 130 100% ____________ (1) in february 2015, we sold this property. joint venture hotels as of december 31, 2014 , we had a minority or noncontrolling financial interest in and operated the following 17 properties, representing 8,398 rooms. we have a right of first refusal to purchase additional equity interests in certain of these joint ventures. we manage each of the partially owned hotels for the entity owning the hotel. property location rooms ownership waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts the waldorf astoria chicago chicago, il, usa 189 15% conrad hotels &amp; resorts conrad cairo cairo, egypt 614 10% conrad dublin dublin, ireland 191 48% hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton orlando orange county convention center orlando, fl, usa 1,417 20% hilton san diego bayfront san diego, ca, usa 1,190 25% hilton tokyo bay urayasu-shi, japan 817 24% hilton berlin berlin, germany 601 40% capital hilton washington, d.c., usa 547 25% hilton nagoya nagoya, japan 448 24% hilton la jolla torrey pines la jolla, ca, usa 394 25% hilton mauritius resort &amp; spa flic-en-flac, mauritius 193 20% hilton imperial dubrovnik dubrovnik, croatia 147 18% doubletree by hilton doubletree las vegas airport las vegas, nv, usa 190 50% doubletree hotel missoula/edgewater missoula, mt, usa 171 50% embassy suites hotels embassy suites alexandria old town alexandria, va, usa 288 50% embassy suites secaucus meadowlands secaucus, nj, usa 261 50% other myrtle beach kingston plantation (condo management company) myrtle beach, sc, usa 740 50% leased hotels as of december 31, 2014 , we leased the following 75 hotels, representing 22,400 rooms. property location rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts waldorf astoria rome cavalieri rome, italy 370 waldorf astoria amsterdam amsterdam, netherlands 93 36 property location rooms hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton tokyo (1) (shinjuku-ku) tokyo, japan 811 hilton ramses cairo, egypt 771 hilton london kensington london, united kingdom 601 hilton vienna vienna, austria 579 hilton tel aviv tel aviv, israel 562 hilton osaka (1) osaka, japan 523 hilton istanbul istanbul, turkey 499 hilton salt lake city salt lake city, ut, usa 499 hilton munich park munich, germany 484 hilton munich city munich, germany 480 london hilton on park lane london, united kingdom 453 hilton diagonal mar barcelona barcelona, spain 433 hilton mainz mainz, germany 431 hilton trinidad &amp; conference centre port of spain, trinidad 418 hilton london heathrow airport london, united kingdom 398 hilton izmir izmir, turkey 380 hilton addis ababa addis ababa, ethiopia 372 hilton vienna danube vienna, austria 367 hilton frankfurt frankfurt, germany 342 hilton brighton metropole brighton, united kingdom 340 hilton sandton sandton, south africa 329 hilton brisbane brisbane, australia 319 hilton glasgow glasgow, united kingdom 319 hilton milan milan, italy 319 hilton ankara ankara, turkey 310 hilton adana adana, turkey 308 hilton waldorf london, united kingdom 298 hilton cologne cologne, germany 296 hilton slussen stockholm, sweden 289 hilton nairobi (1) nairobi, kenya 287 hilton madrid airport madrid, spain 284 hilton parmelia perth parmelia perth, australia 284 hilton london canary wharf london, united kingdom 282 hilton amsterdam amsterdam, netherlands 271 hilton newcastle gateshead newcastle upon tyne, united kingdom 254 hilton vienna plaza vienna, austria 254 hilton bonn bonn, germany 252 hilton london tower bridge london, united kingdom 245 hilton london stansted airport stansted, united kingdom 239 hilton manchester airport manchester, united kingdom 230 hilton basel basel, switzerland 220 hilton bracknell bracknell, united kingdom 215 hilton antwerp antwerp, belgium 210 hilton reading reading, united kingdom 210 hilton leeds city leeds, united kingdom 208 hilton watford watford, united kingdom 200 hilton mersin mersin, turkey 186 hilton warwick/stratford-upon-avon warwick, united kingdom 181 hilton leicester leicester, united kingdom 179 hilton innsbruck innsbruck, austria 176 hilton nottingham nottingham, united kingdom 176 hilton odawara resort &amp; spa odawara city, japan 173 hilton st. anne's manor, bracknell wokingham, united kingdom 170 hilton croydon croydon, united kingdom 168 hilton london green park london, united kingdom 163 hilton cobham cobham, united kingdom 158 37 property location rooms hilton paris la defense paris, france 153 hilton east midlands derby, united kingdom 152 hilton maidstone maidstone, united kingdom 146 hilton avisford park, arundel arundel, united kingdom 140 hilton northampton northampton, united kingdom 139 hilton london hyde park london, united kingdom 132 hilton york york, united kingdom 131 hilton mainz city mainz, germany 127 hilton parksa istanbul istanbul, turkey 117 hilton puckrup hall, tewkesbury tewkesbury, united kingdom 112 hilton glasgow grosvenor glasgow, united kingdom 97 doubletree by hilton doubletree hotel seattle airport seattle, wa, usa 850 doubletree hotel san diego mission valley san diego, ca, usa 300 doubletree hotel sonoma wine country rohnert park, ca, usa 245 doubletree hotel durango durango, co, usa 159 other scandic hotel sergel plaza stockholm, sweden 403 the trafalgar london london, united kingdom 129 ____________ (1) we own a majority or controlling financial interest, but less than a 100 percent interest, in entities that lease these properties. corporate headquarters and regional offices our corporate headquarters are located at 7930 jones branch drive, mclean, virginia 22102. these offices consist of approximately 167,303 square feet of leased space. the lease for this property initially expires on december 31, 2019, with options to renew and increase the rentable square feet. we also have corporate offices in watford, england (europe), dubai, united arab emirates (middle east &amp; africa) and singapore (asia pacific). additionally, to support our operations, we have our hilton hhonors and other commercial services office in addison, texas, the hilton grand vacations headquarters in orlando, florida and timeshare sales offices in honolulu, hawaii, las vegas, nevada, new york city, new york, orlando, florida, tumon bay, guam and tokyo, japan. other non-operating real estate holdings include a centralized operations center located in memphis, tennessee, and a hilton reservations and customer care office in carrollton, texas. we believe that our existing office properties are in good condition and are sufficient and suitable for the conduct of our business. in the event we need to expand our operations, we believe that suitable space will be available on commercially reasonable terms. item 3. legal proceedings we are involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums, including proceedings involving tort and other general liability claims, employee claims, consumer protection claims and claims related to our management of certain hotel properties. most occurrences involving liability, claims of negligence and employees are covered by insurance with solvent insurance carriers. for those matters not covered by insurance, which include commercial matters, we recognize a liability when we believe the loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. we believe we have adequate reserves against such matters. we currently believe that the ultimate outcome of such lawsuits and proceedings will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. however, depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations in a particular period. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 38 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock began trading publicly on the nyse under the symbol "hlt" on december 12, 2013 . prior to that time, there was no public market for our common stock. as of february 9, 2015 , there were approximately 63 holders of record of our common stock. this stockholder figure does not include a substantially greater number of holders whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers and other financial institutions. the following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the nyse for the indicated periods: stock price high low fiscal year ended december 31, 2014 first quarter $ 23.10 $ 20.55 second quarter $ 23.80 $ 20.96 third quarter $ 25.92 $ 23.15 fourth quarter $ 26.53 $ 20.72 fiscal year ended december 31, 2013 fourth quarter (beginning december 12, 2013) $ 25.95 $ 21.15 dividends we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. because we are a holding company and have no direct operations, we will only be able to pay dividends from funds we receive from our subsidiaries. we did not declare or pay any dividends on our common stock during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . issuer purchases of equity securities during the quarter ended december 31, 2014 , we did not purchase any of our equity securities that are registered under section 12(b) of the exchange act. securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans as of december 31, 2014 number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (2) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans equity compensation plan approved by stockholders (1) 7,304,569 $ 7.58 72,686,932 ____________ (1) relates only to the hilton worldwide holdings inc. 2013 omnibus incentive plan detailed below. (2) includes 6,318,441 shares that may be issued upon the vesting of restricted stock units, which cannot be exercised for consideration. 39 on december 11, 2013, the board of directors and our then sole stockholder adopted the 2013 omnibus incentive plan under which 80,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved. the 2013 omnibus incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based and performance compensation awards to eligible employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors of hilton. if an award under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan terminates, lapses or is settled without the payment of the full number of shares subject to the award, the undelivered shares may be granted again under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan. as of december 31, 2014 , there were no equity compensation plans not approved by hilton stockholders. recent sales of unregistered securities during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , we did not sell any equity securities that were not registered under the securities act. performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return since december 12, 2013 , the date our common stock began trading on the nyse, with the s&amp;p 500 index (" s&amp;p 500 ") and the s&amp;p hotels, resorts &amp; cruise lines index ("s&amp;p hotel"). the graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index was $100 on december 12, 2013 and that all dividends and other distributions were reinvested. 12/12/2013 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 hilton worldwide $100.0 $103.5 $121.3 s&amp;p 500 $100.0 $104.1 $116.0 s&amp;p hotel $100.0 $109.2 $132.8 40 item 6. selected financial data we derived the selected statement of operations data for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 and the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. we derived the selected statement of operations data for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 and the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this annual report on form 10-k. we derived the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2010 from our unaudited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this annual report on form 10-k. our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period. the selected consolidated financial data below should be read together with the consolidated financial statements including the related notes thereto, and "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (in millions, except per share data) statement of operations data: revenues owned and leased hotels $ 4,239 $ 4,046 $ 3,979 $ 3,898 $ 3,667 management and franchise fees and other 1,401 1,175 1,088 1,014 901 timeshare 1,171 1,109 1,085 944 863 6,811 6,330 6,152 5,856 5,431 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 3,691 3,405 3,124 2,927 2,637 total revenues 10,502 9,735 9,276 8,783 8,068 expenses owned and leased hotels 3,252 3,147 3,230 3,213 3,009 timeshare 767 730 758 668 634 depreciation and amortization 628 603 550 564 574 impairment losses 54 20 24 general, administrative and other 491 748 460 416 637 5,138 5,228 5,052 4,881 4,878 other expenses from managed and franchised properties 3,691 3,405 3,124 2,927 2,637 total expenses 8,829 8,633 8,176 7,808 7,515 operating income 1,673 1,102 1,100 975 553 net income attributable to hilton stockholders 673 415 352 253 128 basic and diluted earnings per share $ 0.68 $ 0.45 $ 0.38 $ 0.27 $ 0.14 weighted average shares outstanding - basic 985 923 921 921 921 weighted average shares outstanding - diluted 986 923 921 921 921 41 december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (in millions) selected balance sheet data: cash and cash equivalents $ 566 $ 594 $ 755 $ 781 $ 796 restricted cash and cash equivalents 202 266 550 658 619 total assets 26,125 26,562 27,066 27,312 27,750 long-term debt (1) 10,813 11,755 15,575 16,311 16,995 non-recourse timeshare debt (1)(2) 631 672 non-recourse debt and capital lease obligations of consolidated variable interest entities (1) 248 296 420 481 541 total equity 4,714 4,276 2,155 1,702 1,544 ____________ (1) includes current maturities. (2) includes our current and long-term maturities of our non-recourse timeshare financing receivables credit facility ("timeshare facility") and our notes backed by timeshare financing receivables ("securitized timeshare debt"). 42 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. overview our business hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,322 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 715,062 rooms in 94 countries and territories as of december 31, 2014 . our flagship full-service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio also includes our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton, our full-service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites hotels, our focused-service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton hotels, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton, and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. we own or lease interests in 144 hotels, many of which are located in global gateway cities, including iconic properties such as the hilton new york, hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. we have approximately 44 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors. segments and regions management analyzes our operations and business by both operating segments and geographic regions. our operations consist of three reportable segments that are based on similar products or services: management and franchise; ownership; and timeshare. the management and franchise segment provides services, which include hotel management and licensing of our brands to franchisees, as well as property management at timeshare properties. this segment generates its revenue from management and franchise fees charged to hotel owners, including our owned and leased hotels, and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. as a manager of hotels and timeshare resorts, we typically are responsible for supervising or operating the property in exchange for management fees. as a franchisor of hotels, we charge franchise fees in exchange for the use of one of our brand names and related commercial services, such as our reservation system, marketing and information technology services. the ownership segment derives earnings from providing hotel room rentals, food and beverage sales and other services at our owned and leased hotels. the timeshare segment consists of multi-unit vacation ownership properties and generates revenue by marketing and selling timeshare intervals owned by hilton and third parties, resort operations and providing consumer financing for the timeshare intervals. geographically, management conducts business through three distinct geographic regions: the americas; europe, middle east and africa ("emea"); and asia pacific. the americas region includes north america, south america and central america, including all caribbean nations. although the u.s. is included in the americas, it is often analyzed separately and apart from the americas geographic region and, as such, it is presented separately within the analysis herein. the emea region includes europe, which represents the western-most peninsula of eurasia stretching from ireland in the west to russia in the east, and the middle east and africa, which represents the middle east region and all african nations, including the indian ocean island nations. europe and the middle east and africa are often analyzed separately by management. the asia pacific region includes the eastern and southeastern nations of asia, as well as india, australia, new zealand and the pacific island nations. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 76 percent of our system-wide hotel rooms were located in the u.s. we expect that the percentage of our hotel rooms outside the u.s. will continue to increase in future years as hotels in our pipeline open. system growth and pipeline our management and franchise contracts are designed to expand our business with limited or no capital investment. the capital required to build and maintain hotels that we manage or franchise is typically provided by the owner of the respective hotel with minimal or no capital required by us as the manager or franchisor. additionally, prior to approving the addition of new hotels to our management and franchise development pipeline, we evaluate the economic viability of the hotel based on the geographic location, the credit quality of the third-party owner and other factors. as a result, by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements with third-party owners, we expect to achieve a higher overall return on invested capital. to support our growth strategy, we continue to expand our development pipeline. as of december 31, 2014 , we had a total of 1,351 hotels in our development pipeline, representing approximately 230,000 rooms under construction or approved for 43 development throughout 79 countries and territories. of the rooms in the pipeline, approximately 129,000 rooms, representing 56 percent of the pipeline, were located outside the u.s. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 121,000 rooms, representing over half of our development pipeline, were under construction. all of the rooms in the pipeline and under construction are within our management and franchise segment. we do not consider any individual development project relating to properties under our management and franchise segment to be material to us. recent events sale of waldorf astoria new york in february 2015, we completed the sale of the waldorf astoria new york for a purchase price of $1.95 billion and the existing waldorf astoria loan of approximately $525 million was repaid in full. we used the proceeds from the sale as part of a tax deferred exchange of real property to acquire five properties for a total purchase price of $1.76 billion, including the assumption of a $450 million mortgage loan secured by two of the acquired properties . new brands in october 2014, we launched our newest brand: canopy by hilton. this brand represents a new hotel concept that redefines the lifestyle category, offering simple, guest-directed service, thoughtful local choices and comfortable spaces. as of february 12, 2015, 15 canopy properties comprising more than 2,500 rooms were in the pipeline or had signed letters of intent. in june 2014, we launched a new brand: curio - a collection by hilton. created for travelers who seek local discovery and experiences, curio will consist of a carefully selected collection of hotels that will retain their unique identity but are expected to deliver the many benefits of our system, including the hilton hhonors guest loyalty program. as of december 31, 2014, 5 properties comprising 3,170 rooms were open and operating. as of february 12, 2015, 23 curio properties comprising more than 4,000 rooms were either in the pipeline or had signed letters of intent to be included in the collection. secondary offerings during the year ended december 31, 2014, certain selling stockholders affiliated with blackstone sold an aggregate of 207,000,000 shares of our common stock (including 27,000,000 shares of common stock that sold pursuant to the exercise in full of underwriters' options to purchase additional shares). we did not offer any shares of common stock or receive any proceeds from the sale of shares in these offerings, and none of our officers or directors sold any shares of common stock beneficially owned by them in these offerings. principal components and factors affecting our results of operations revenues principal components we primarily derive our revenues from the following sources: owned and leased hotels. represents revenues derived from hotel operations, including room rentals, food and beverage sales and other ancillary goods and services. these revenues are primarily derived from two categories of customers: transient and group. transient guests are individual travelers who are traveling for business or leisure. our group guests are traveling for group events that reserve rooms for meetings, conferences or social functions sponsored by associations, corporate, social, military, educational, religious or other organizations. group business usually includes a block of room accommodations, as well as other ancillary services, such as meeting facilities, catering and banquet services. a majority of our food and beverage sales and other ancillary services are provided to customers who are also occupying rooms at our hotel properties. as a result, occupancy affects all components of our owned and leased hotel revenues. management and franchise fees and other. represents revenues derived from management fees earned from hotels and timeshare properties managed by us, franchise fees received in connection with the franchising of our brands and other revenue generated by the incidental support of hotel operations for owned, leased, managed and franchised properties and other rental income. 44 terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base fee, which is typically a percentage of each hotel's gross revenue, and in some cases an incentive fee, which is based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. management fees from timeshare properties are generally a fixed amount as stated in the management agreement. outside of the u.s., our fees are often more dependent on hotel profitability measures, either through a single management fee structure where the entire fee is based on a profitability measure, or because our two-tier fee structure is more heavily weighted toward the incentive fee than the base fee. additionally, we receive one-time upfront fees upon execution of certain management contracts. in general, the hotel owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. under our franchise agreements, franchisees pay us franchise fees which consist of initial application and initiation fees for new hotels entering the system and monthly royalty fees, generally calculated as a percentage of room revenues. royalty fees for our full-service brands may also include a percentage of gross food and beverage revenues and other revenues, where applicable. in addition to the franchise application and royalty fees, franchisees also generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the cost of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation system expenses; and quality assurance program costs. timeshare. represents revenues derived from the sale and financing of timeshare intervals and revenues from enrollments and other fees, rentals of timeshare units, food and beverage sales and other ancillary services at our timeshare properties and fees, which we refer to as resort operations. additionally, in recent years, we began a transformation of our timeshare business to a capital light model in which third-party timeshare owners and developers provide capital for development while we act as the sales and marketing agent and property manager. through these transactions, we receive a sales and marketing commission and branding fees on sales of timeshare intervals, recurring fees to operate the homeowners' associations and revenues from resort operations. other revenues from managed and franchised properties. these revenues represent the payroll and its related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, as well as certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, marketing expenses and other expenses associated with our brands and shared services that are contractually either reimbursed to us by the property owners or paid from fees collected in advance from these properties when the costs are incurred. we have no legal responsibility for employees at franchised properties. the corresponding expenses are presented as other expenses from managed and franchised properties in our consolidated statements of operations resulting in no effect on operating income or net income. factors affecting our revenues the following factors affect the revenues we derive from our operations: consumer demand and global economic conditions . consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence and adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased operations and the amount of management and franchise fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties. further, competition for hotel guests and the supply of hotel services affect our ability to increase rates charged to customers at our hotels. also, declines in hotel profitability during an economic downturn directly affect the incentive portion of our management fees, which is based on hotel profit measures. our timeshare segment also is linked to cycles in the general economy and consumer discretionary spending. as a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles can subject and have subjected our revenues to significant volatility. agreements with third-party owners and franchisees and relationships with developers . we depend on our long-term management and franchise agreements with third-party owners and franchisees for a significant portion of our management and franchise fee revenues. the success and sustainability of our management and franchise business depends on our ability to perform under our management and franchise agreements and maintain good relationships with third-party owners and franchisees. our relationships with these third parties also generate new relationships with developers and opportunities for property development that can support our growth. growth and maintenance of our hotel system and earning fees relating to hotels in the pipeline are dependent on the ability of developers and owners to access capital for the development, maintenance and renovation of properties. we believe that we have good relationships with our third-party owners, franchisees and developers and are committed to the continued growth and 45 development of these relationships. these relationships exist with a diverse group of owners, franchisees and developers and are not significantly concentrated with any particular third party. additionally, in recent years we have entered into sales and marketing agreements to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers. our supply of third-party developed timeshare intervals was approximately 109,000 , or 82 percent of our total supply, as of december 31, 2014 . we expect sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers and resort operations to comprise a growing percentage of our timeshare revenue and revenues derived from the sale and financing of timeshare intervals developed by us to comprise a smaller percentage of our timeshare revenue in future periods, consistent with our strategy to focus our business on the management aspects and deploy less of our capital to asset construction. expenses principal components we primarily incur the following expenses: owned and leased hotels. owned and leased hotel expenses reflect the operating expenses of our consolidated owned and leased hotels, including room expense, food and beverage costs, other support costs and property expenses. room expense includes compensation costs for housekeeping, laundry and front desk staff and supply costs for guest room amenities and laundry. food and beverage costs include costs for wait and kitchen staff and food and beverage products. other support expenses consist of costs associated with property-level management, utilities, sales and marketing, operating hotel spas, telephones, parking and other guest recreation, entertainment and services. property expenses include property taxes, repairs and maintenance, rent and insurance. timeshare . timeshare expenses include the cost of inventory sold during the period, sales and marketing expenses, resort operations expenses and other overhead expenses associated with our timeshare business. depreciation and amortization. these are non-cash expenses that primarily consist of depreciation of fixed assets such as buildings, furniture, fixtures and equipment at our consolidated owned and leased hotels, as well as certain corporate assets. amortization expense primarily consists of amortization of our management and franchise intangibles, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. additionally, we amortize capitalized software over the estimated useful life of the software. general, administrative and other expenses. general, administrative and other expenses consist primarily of compensation expense for our corporate staff and personnel supporting our business segments (including divisional offices that support our management and franchise segment), professional fees (including consulting, audit and legal fees), travel and entertainment expenses, bad debt expenses for uncollected management, franchise and other fees, contractual performance obligations and office administrative and related expenses. expenses incurred by our supply management business, laundry facilities and other ancillary businesses are also included in general, administrative and other expenses. impairment losses. we hold significant amounts of goodwill, amortizing and non-amortizing intangible assets and long-lived assets. we evaluate these assets for impairment as further discussed in " critical accounting policies and estimates." these evaluations have, in the past, resulted in impairment losses for certain of these assets based on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding the assets and our estimates of fair value. based on economic conditions or other factors at a property-specific or company-wide level, we may be required to take additional impairment losses to reflect further declines in our asset values. other expenses from managed and franchised properties. these expenses represent the payroll and its related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, as well as certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, marketing expenses and other expenses associated with our brands and shared services that are contractually either reimbursed to us by the property owners or paid from fees collected in advance from these properties when the costs are incurred. we have no legal responsibility for the employees at our franchised properties. the corresponding revenues are presented as other revenues from managed and franchised properties in our consolidated statements of operations resulting in no effect on operating income or net income. 46 factors affecting our costs and expenses the following are principal factors that affect the costs and expenses we incur in the course of our operations: fixed expenses. many of the expenses associated with managing, franchising and owning hotels and timeshare resorts are relatively fixed. these expenses include personnel costs, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, as well as sales and marketing expenses for our timeshare segment. if we are unable to decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels and other properties decreases, the resulting decline in our revenues can have an adverse effect on our net cash flow, margins and profits. this effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth. economic downturns generally affect the results of our owned and leased hotel segment more significantly than the results of our management and franchising segments due to the high fixed costs associated with operating an owned or leased hotel. the effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts is limited by the fixed costs inherent in our business. as a result, we may not be able to offset revenue reductions through cost cutting. employees at some of our owned and leased hotels are parties to collective bargaining agreements that may also limit our ability to make timely staffing or labor changes in response to declining revenues. in addition, any efforts to reduce costs, or to defer or cancel capital improvements, could adversely affect the economic value of our hotels and brands. we have taken steps to reduce our fixed costs to levels we feel are appropriate to maximize profitability and respond to market conditions without jeopardizing the overall customer experience or the value of our hotels or brands. also, a significant portion of our costs to support our timeshare business relates to direct sales and marketing of these units. in periods of decreased demand for timeshare intervals, we may be unable to reduce our sales and marketing expenses quickly enough to prevent a deterioration of our profit margins on our timeshare business. changes in depreciation and amortization expense. changes in depreciation expense may be driven by renovations of existing hotels, acquisition or development of new hotels, the disposition of existing hotels through sale or closure, or changes in estimates of the useful lives of our assets. as we place new assets into service, we will be required to record additional depreciation expense on those assets. additionally, we capitalize costs associated with certain software development projects, and as those projects are completed and placed into service, amortization expense will increase. other items effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations significant portions of our operations are conducted in functional currencies other than our reporting currency, which is the u.s. dollar ("usd"), and we have assets and liabilities denominated in a variety of foreign currencies. as a result, we are required to translate those results, assets and liabilities from the functional currency into usd at market based exchange rates for each reporting period. when comparing our results of operations between periods, there may be material portions of the changes in our revenues or expenses that are derived from fluctuations in exchange rates experienced between those periods. seasonality the lodging industry is seasonal in nature. however, the periods during which our hotels experience higher or lower levels of demand vary from property to property and depend upon location, type of property and competitive mix within the specific location. based on historical results, we generally expect our revenue to be lower during the first calendar quarter of each year than during each of the three subsequent quarters, with the fourth quarter producing the strongest revenues of the year. key business and financial metrics used by management comparable hotels we define our comparable hotels as those that: (i) were active and operating in our system for at least one full calendar year as of the end of the current period, and open january 1st of the previous year; (ii) have not undergone a change in brand or ownership type during the current or comparable periods reported; and (iii) have not sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, undergone large-scale capital projects or for which comparable results are not available. of the 4,278 hotels in our system as of december 31, 2014 , 3,514 have been classified as comparable hotels. our 764 non-comparable hotels included 73 properties, or less than two percent of the total hotels in our system, that were removed from the comparable group during the last year because they sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, undergone large-scale capital projects or comparable results were not available. of the 4,073 hotels in our system as of december 31, 2013 , 3,548 were classified as comparable hotels for the year ended december 31, 2013 . 47 occupancy occupancy represents the total number of room nights sold divided by the total number of room nights available at a hotel or group of hotels. occupancy measures the utilization of our hotels' available capacity. management uses occupancy to gauge demand at a specific hotel or group of hotels in a given period. occupancy levels also help us determine achievable adr levels as demand for hotel rooms increases or decreases. average daily rate adr represents hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period. adr measures average room price attained by a hotel and adr trends provide useful information concerning the pricing environment and the nature of the customer base of a hotel or group of hotels. adr is a commonly used performance measure in the industry, and we use adr to assess pricing levels that we are able to generate by type of customer, as changes in rates have a different effect on overall revenues and incremental profitability than changes in occupancy, as described above. revenue per available room we calculate revpar by dividing hotel room revenue by room nights available to guests for a given period. we consider revpar to be a meaningful indicator of our performance as it provides a metric correlated to two primary and key drivers of operations at our hotels: occupancy and adr. revpar is also a useful indicator in measuring performance over comparable periods for comparable hotels. references to revpar, adr and occupancy are presented on a comparable basis and references to revpar and adr are presented on a currency neutral basis (all periods use the same exchange rates), unless otherwise noted. ebitda and adjusted ebitda ebitda, presented herein, is a financial measure that is not recognized under united states of america ("u.s.") generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap") that reflects net income attributable to hilton stockholders, excluding interest expense, a provision for income taxes and depreciation and amortization. we consider ebitda to be a useful measure of operating performance, due to the significance of our long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. adjusted ebitda, presented herein, is calculated as ebitda, as previously defined, further adjusted to exclude certain gains, losses and expenses in connection with: (i) asset dispositions for both consolidated and unconsolidated investments; (ii) foreign currency transactions; (iii) debt restructurings/retirements; (iv) non-cash impairment losses; (v) furniture, fixtures and equipment ("ff&amp;e") replacement reserves required under certain lease agreements; (vi) reorganization costs; (vii) share-based and certain other compensation expenses prior to and in connection with our ipo; (viii) severance, relocation and other expenses; and (ix) other items. ebitda and adjusted ebitda are not recognized terms under u.s. gaap and should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or other measures of financial performance or liquidity derived in accordance with u.s. gaap. in addition, our definitions of ebitda and adjusted ebitda may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. we believe that ebitda and adjusted ebitda provide useful information to investors about us and our financial condition and results of operations for the following reasons: (i) ebitda and adjusted ebitda are among the measures used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance and make day-to-day operating decisions; and (ii) ebitda and adjusted ebitda are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties as a common performance measure to compare results or estimate valuations across companies in our industry. ebitda and adjusted ebitda have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for net income (loss), cash flow or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under u.s. gaap. some of these limitations are: ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect our interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our indebtedness; 48 ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect our tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect the effect on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and other companies in our industry may calculate ebitda and adjusted ebitda differently, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures. because of these limitations, ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as discretionary cash available to us to reinvest in the growth of our business or as measures of cash that will be available to us to meet our obligations. results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 the hotel operating statistics for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2014 2014 vs. 2013 owned and leased hotels occupancy 78.4 % 2.0 % pts. adr $ 199.24 2.9 % revpar $ 156.18 5.6 % managed and franchised hotels occupancy 74.3 % 2.4 % pts. adr $ 135.20 3.9 % revpar $ 100.45 7.3 % system-wide occupancy 74.6 % 2.4 % pts. adr $ 141.52 3.7 % revpar $ 105.63 7.1 % 49 the hotel operating statistics by region for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2014 2014 vs. 2013 americas occupancy 75.2 % 2.3 % pts. adr $ 137.13 4.1 % revpar $ 103.16 7.4 % europe occupancy 75.4 % 2.6 % pts. adr $ 170.68 2.4 % revpar $ 128.65 6.1 % middle east and africa occupancy 63.5 % 3.5 % pts. adr $ 165.15 (1.3 )% revpar $ 104.93 4.4 % asia pacific occupancy 69.2 % 2.3 % pts. adr $ 160.59 1.4 % revpar $ 111.15 4.9 % during the year ended december 31, 2014 , we experienced revpar increases in all segments and regions of our business, with occupancy and rate increases in all regions except middle east and africa, where rates declined and market demand increased over 2013. revenues owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 2,227 $ 2,058 8.2 international owned and leased hotels 2,012 1,988 1.2 $ 4,239 $ 4,046 4.8 during the year ended december 31, 2014 , the overall improved performance at our owned and leased hotels was primarily a result of improvement in revpar of 5.6 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. as of december 31, 2014 , we had 40 consolidated owned and leased hotels located in the u.s., comprising 25,276 rooms. the increase in revenues from our u.s. owned and leased hotels was primarily a result of an increase in revpar at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels of 6.9 percent, which was due to increases in occupancy and adr of 1.7 percentage points and 4.6 percent, respectively. the increase in revpar at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels was attributable to increases in both transient guests and group business. in addition, food and beverage revenues increased 7.0 percent, primarily as a result of increased spending by group customers. as of december 31, 2014 , we had 87 consolidated owned and leased hotels located outside of the u.s., comprising 25,280 rooms. the increase in revenues from our international (non-u.s.) owned and leased hotels included an unfavorable movement in foreign currency rates of $17 million; on a currency neutral basis, revenue increased $41 million. the increase in currency neutral revenue resulted from an increase in revpar at our international comparable owned and leased hotels of 3.2 percent, which was primarily a result of increased occupancy of 2.1 percentage points. management and franchise fees and other management and franchise fee revenue for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 totaled $1,311 million and $1,115 million, respectively. the increase of $196 million, or 17.6 percent, in management and franchise fee business reflects increases 50 in revpar of 7.0 percent and 7.5 percent at our comparable managed and franchised properties, respectively. the increases in revpar for managed and franchised hotels were as a result of increases in both occupancy and adr. the addition of new hotels to our managed and franchised system also contributed to the growth in revenue. during 2014, we added 29 managed properties on a net basis, contributing an additional 9,142 rooms to our system, as well as 188 franchised properties on a net basis, providing an additional 28,636 rooms to our system. as new hotels are established in our system, we expect the fees received from such hotels to increase as they are part of our system for full periods. other revenues were $90 million and $60 million, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013. the increase in other revenues was primarily a result of the increase in revenues earned by our purchasing operations. timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 844 $ 821 2.8 resort operations 195 158 23.4 financing and other 132 130 1.5 $ 1,171 $ 1,109 5.6 timeshare sales revenue increased $23 million as a result of increases in commissions recognized from the sale of third-party developed intervals of approximately $47 million, partially offset by a decrease of approximately $24 million in revenue from the sale of timeshare intervals developed by us, primarily resulting from the deferral of revenue recognition due to sales of developed projects that are partially complete. we expect the decline in sales of our owned timeshare inventory to continue as we further develop our capital light timeshare business with a focus on selling timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers. resort operations revenue increased approximately $37 million resulting from increased transient rentals. operating expenses owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 1,497 $ 1,410 6.2 international owned and leased hotels 1,755 1,737 1.0 $ 3,252 $ 3,147 3.3 fluctuations in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels can relate to various factors, including changes in occupancy levels, labor costs, utilities, taxes and insurance costs. the change in the number of occupied room nights directly affects certain variable expenses, which include payroll, supplies and other operating expenses. the increase in u.s. owned and leased hotels operating expenses was primarily a result of increases in payroll costs and other variable costs resulting from increased occupancy. the increase in international owned and leased hotels operating expenses included a favorable movement in foreign currency rates of $9 million; on a currency neutral basis, operating expenses increased $27 million. the increase resulted from the opening of a new property in 2014, which had operating expenses of $13 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the increase in currency neutral expenses was also a result of a benefit of $11 million recognized as a reduction in rent expense during the year ended december 31, 2013 relating to a termination payment received for one of our properties with a ground lease. 51 timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 586 $ 554 5.8 resort operations 123 119 3.4 financing and other 58 57 1.8 $ 767 $ 730 5.1 timeshare sales expense increased $32 million primarily as a result of increased sales and marketing expenses, most significantly related to our capital light timeshare business. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) depreciation and amortization $ 628 $ 603 4.1 the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of increased amortization expense of $30 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 , which was primarily a result of capitalized software costs placed into service during and after 2013. depreciation expense decreased $5 million in 2014, primarily as a result of $10 million in accelerated depreciation recognized in 2013 resulting from a lease termination at one of our properties, offset by additional depreciation expense from our owned and leased hotels resulting from assets placed in service during and after 2013. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) general, administrative and other $ 491 $ 748 (34.4) general and administrative expenses consist of our corporate operations, compensation and related expenses, including share-based compensation, and other operating costs. general and administrative expenses were $416 million and $697 million for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively, as a result of a $281 million decrease in share-based compensation expense issued prior to and in connection with our ipo. we incurred $306 million of share-based compensation expense related to the conversion of our executive compensation plan concurrent with our ipo during the fourth quarter of 2013. other expenses for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 were $75 million and $51 million , respectively. the increase of $24 million was primarily from our purchasing operations, which is consistent with the increase in revenues from our purchasing operations. non-operating income and expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) interest expense $ 618 $ 620 (0.3) interest expense remained relatively unchanged from 2013. our overall borrowing rate increased based on a series of transactions occurring in october 2013, collectively referred to as the "debt refinancing"; however, we reduced our outstanding borrowings during 2014. see note 13 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. additionally, interest expense included the accelerated amortization of $13 million and $23 million of debt issuance costs and original issue discount related to voluntary prepayments on our term loan facility (the "term loans") during the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 52 year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 19 $ 16 18.8 the increase in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates were primarily a result of improved performance of our unconsolidated affiliates. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions $ 26 $ (45 ) nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the net gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions was primarily a result of changes in foreign currency rates on our short-term cross-currency intercompany loans, which are primarily denominated in british pound sterling ("gbp") and australian dollar ("aud"). both gbp and aud weakened against the usd during the year ended december 31, 2014 , resulting in a gain on foreign currency transactions. further, in 2014 we designated certain gbp denominated intercompany loan receivables as long-term, limiting our exposure to changes in the gbp currency rate. this resulted in $81 million in losses included in other comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended december 31, 2014 that would have otherwise been included in gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) gain on debt extinguishment $ $ 229 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the gain on debt extinguishment was the result of the debt refinancing that occurred in 2013. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) other gain, net $ 37 $ 7 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily related to a pre-tax gain of $23 million resulting from an equity investments exchange; see note 3: "acquisitions" in our consolidated financial statements, as well as pre-tax gains of $13 million resulting from the sale of two hotels and a vacant parcel of land. the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2013 was primarily related to a capital lease restructuring by one of our consolidated variable interest entities ("vies") during the period. the revised terms reduced the future minimum lease payments, resulting in a reduction of the capital lease obligation and a residual amount, which was recorded in other gain, net. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) income tax expense $ 465 $ 238 95.4 the increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of an increase in u.s. federal and state taxes as a result of higher taxable income. additionally, during the year ended december 31, 2013, we released valuation allowances against certain foreign and state deferred tax assets, which provided a tax benefit of $121 million. refer to note 19: "income taxes" in 53 our consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of our tax provision at the u.s. statutory rate to our provision for income taxes. segment results we evaluate our business segment operating performance using segment adjusted ebitda, as described in note 24 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. refer to those financial statements for a reconciliation of adjusted ebitda to net income attributable to hilton stockholders. for a discussion of our definition of ebitda and adjusted ebitda, how management uses it to manage our business and material limitations on its usefulness, refer to " key business and financial metrics used by management". the following table sets forth revenues and adjusted ebitda by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts: year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) revenues: ownership $ 4,271 $ 4,075 4.8 management and franchise 1,468 1,271 15.5 timeshare 1,171 1,109 5.6 segment revenues 6,910 6,455 7.0 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 3,691 3,405 8.4 other revenues 99 69 43.5 intersegment fees elimination (198 ) (194 ) 2.1 total revenues $ 10,502 $ 9,735 7.9 adjusted ebitda: ownership $ 999 $ 926 7.9 management and franchise 1,468 1,271 15.5 timeshare 334 297 12.5 corporate and other (293 ) (284 ) 3.2 adjusted ebitda $ 2,508 $ 2,210 13.5 ownership ownership segment revenues increased $196 million as a result of an improvement in revpar of 5.6 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 revenues owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our owned and leased hotels. our ownership segment's adjusted ebitda increased $73 million primarily as a result of the increase in ownership segment revenues, offset by an increase in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels of $105 million. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 operating expenses owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the increase in operating expenses. management and franchise refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 revenues management and franchise and other" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our managed and franchised properties. our management and franchise segment's adjusted ebitda increased as a result of the increase in management and franchise segment revenues. timeshare refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 revenues timeshare" for a discussion of the increase in revenues from our timeshare segment. our timeshare segment's adjusted ebitda increased $37 million primarily as a result of the $62 million increase in timeshare revenue, offset by a $37 million increase in timeshare operating expense. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 operating expenses timeshare for a discussion of the decrease in operating expenses from our timeshare segment. 54 year ended december 31, 2013 compared with year ended december 31, 2012 the hotel operating statistics for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2013 2013 vs. 2012 owned and leased hotels occupancy 75.9 % 0.9 % pts. adr $ 191.15 3.4 % revpar $ 145.00 4.6 % managed and franchised hotels occupancy 71.9 % 1.4 % pts. adr $ 130.68 3.3 % revpar $ 94.02 5.3 % system-wide occupancy 72.3 % 1.3 % pts. adr $ 136.49 3.3 % revpar $ 98.65 5.2 % the hotel operating statistics by region for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2013 2013 vs. 2012 americas occupancy 72.6 % 1.2 % pts. adr $ 131.77 3.4 % revpar $ 95.66 5.2 % europe occupancy 73.4 % 2.2 % pts. adr $ 165.56 0.8 % revpar $ 121.45 3.9 % middle east and africa occupancy 58.6 % (3.7 )% pts. adr $ 169.71 13.1 % revpar $ 99.48 6.4 % asia pacific occupancy 69.9 % 4.5 % pts. adr $ 170.30 % revpar $ 119.10 7.0 % revenues owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 2,058 $ 1,922 7.1 international owned and leased hotels 1,988 2,057 (3.4) $ 4,046 $ 3,979 1.7 55 during the year ended december 31, 2013, the overall improved performance at our owned and leased hotels primarily was a result of improvement in revpar of 4.6 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. as of december 31, 2013, we had 35 consolidated owned and leased hotels located in the u.s., comprising 24,050 rooms. the increase in revenues from our u.s. owned and leased hotels was primarily as a result of an increase in revpar at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels of 6.8 percent, which was a result of increases in occupancy and adr of 1.6 percentage points and 4.5 percent, respectively. as of december 31, 2013, we had 89 consolidated owned and leased hotels located outside of the u.s., comprising 25,781 rooms. the decrease in revenues from our international (non-u.s.) owned and leased hotels was primarily as a result of an unfavorable movement in foreign currency rates of $63 million; on a currency neutral basis, revenue decreased $6 million. the decrease in currency neutral revenue was a result of a $44 million decrease in revenue from hotels that we sold or where leases expired during the periods, offset by an increase in revenues from our international comparable owned and leased hotels, which had a revpar increase of 8.0 percent. the revpar increase was a result of a 4.2 percentage point increase in occupancy and a 2.0 percent increase in adr. management and franchise fees and other management and franchise fee revenue for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 totaled $1,115 million and $1,032 million, respectively. the increase of $83 million, or 8.0 percent, reflects increases in revpar of 6.0 percent and 5.0 percent at our comparable managed and franchised properties, respectively. the increases in revpar for managed and franchised hotels were a result of both increases in occupancy and adr. the addition of new hotels to our managed and franchised system also contributed to the growth in revenue. during 2013, we added 45 managed properties on a net basis, contributing an additional 10,196 rooms to our system, as well as 108 franchised properties on a net basis, providing an additional 16,084 rooms to our system. as new hotels are established in our system, we expect the fees received from such hotels to increase as they are part of our system for full periods. other revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 were $60 million and $56 million, respectively. the increase was primarily as a result of an increase in revenues received from our supply management business. timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 821 $ 815 0.7 resort operations 158 149 6.0 financing and other 130 121 7.4 $ 1,109 $ 1,085 2.2 timeshare sales revenue increased $6 million as a result of an increase of approximately $63 million in sales commissions generated from projects developed by third parties. this increase was offset by a decrease of approximately $57 million in revenue from the sale of timeshare intervals developed by us resulting from lower sales volume, which we expect to continue as we further develop our capital light timeshare business with a focus on selling timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers. the increase of approximately $9 million in revenue from our resort operations was primarily as a result of increases in club fees and room rentals. financing and other revenues increased approximately $9 million primarily as a result of increases in portfolio interest income. 56 operating expenses owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 1,410 $ 1,370 2.9 international owned and leased hotels 1,737 1,860 (6.6) $ 3,147 $ 3,230 (2.6) fluctuations in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels can be related to various factors, including changes in occupancy levels, labor costs, utilities, taxes and insurance costs. the change in the number of occupied room nights directly affects certain variable expenses, which include payroll, supplies and other operating expenses. the increase in u.s. owned and leased hotels expenses was a result of increased occupancy levels, which resulted in an increase in variable operating expenses, including labor and utility costs. the decrease in international owned and leased hotel expenses was in part a result of foreign currency movements, which contributed $49 million of the decrease, as international owned and leased hotel expenses, on a currency neutral basis, decreased $74 million. the decrease in currency neutral expenses was primarily as a result of the expiration of operating leases and sales of certain properties in 2012, as well as cost mitigation strategies and operational efficiencies employed at all of our owned and leased properties. timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 554 $ 590 (6.1) resort operations 119 118 0.8 financing and other 57 50 14.0 $ 730 $ 758 (3.7) timeshare sales expense decreased $36 million primarily as a result of lower sales volume at our developed properties resulting in lower cost of sales, offset by an increase in sales and marketing expenses, most significantly related to the shift towards our capital light timeshare business. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) depreciation and amortization $ 603 $ 550 9.6 depreciation expense increased $28 million primarily due to $254 million in capital expenditures during the year ended december 31, 2013, resulting in additional depreciation expense on certain owned and leased assets in 2013. amortization expense increased $25 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily as a result of capitalized software costs that were placed into service during the fourth quarter of 2012. 57 year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) impairment losses $ $ 54 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. during the year ended december 31, 2012, certain markets and properties faced operating and competitive challenges. such challenges caused a decline in expected future results of certain owned and leased properties and in the market value of certain corporate buildings, which caused us to evaluate the carrying values of these affected properties for impairment. as a result of our evaluation, we recognized impairment losses of $42 million related to our owned and leased hotels, $11 million of impairment losses related to certain corporate office facilities and $1 million of impairment losses related to one cost method investment. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) general, administrative and other $ 748 $ 460 62.6 general and administrative expenses consist of our corporate operations, compensation and related expenses, including share-based compensation, and other operating costs. general and administrative expenses were $697 million and $398 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the increase of $299 million was primarily as a result of share-based compensation expense of approximately $306 million related to the conversion of our executive compensation plan concurrent with our ipo during the fourth quarter of 2013. other expenses for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 were $51 million and $62 million, respectively. the decrease of $11 million was primarily as a result of a reduction in payments required under performance guarantees on certain managed properties between periods. non-operating income and expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) interest expense $ 620 $ 569 9.0 interest expense increased $51 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 primarily due to the release of $23 million of debt issuance costs and original issue discount related to the portion of the term loans that was voluntarily prepaid during the year ended december 31, 2013, as well as an increase in the average interest rate on our outstanding borrowings. these increases were offset by decreases in interest expense as a result of voluntary prepayments of $1.45 billion made in 2013 prior to our debt refinancing. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates $ 16 $ (11 ) nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the $27 million increase in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates was primarily a result of $19 million of impairment losses on our equity method investments recognized during the year ended december 31, 2012. additionally, many of our equity method investments experienced improved operating performance, resulting in an increase in the equity in earnings from these unconsolidated affiliates. 58 year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions $ (45 ) $ 23 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the net gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions primarily relates to changes in foreign currency rates relating to short-term cross-currency intercompany loans. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) gain on debt extinguishment $ 229 $ nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the gain on debt extinguishment was the result of the debt refinancing which occurred in 2013. see note 13: "debt" in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) other gain, net $ 7 $ 15 (53.3) the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2013 was primarily related to a capital lease restructuring by one of our consolidated vies during the period. the revised terms reduced the future minimum lease payments, resulting in a reduction of the capital lease obligation and a residual amount, which was recorded in other gain, net. the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2012 was primarily related to the pre-tax gain of $5 million resulting from the sale of our interest in an investment in affiliate accounted for under the equity method, as well as a $6 million gain resulting from the resolution of certain contingencies relating to historical asset sales. year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) income tax expense $ 238 $ 214 11.2 the $24 million increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of an increase in u.s. federal and foreign taxes as a result of higher taxable income, partially offset by the benefit of releasing $121 million of valuation allowances against certain foreign and state deferred tax assets during the year ended december 31, 2013. refer to note 19: "income taxes" in our consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of our tax provision at the u.s. statutory rate to our provision for income taxes. 59 segment results the following table sets forth revenues and adjusted ebitda by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts: year ended december 31, percent change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) revenues: ownership $ 4,075 $ 4,006 1.7 management and franchise 1,271 1,180 7.7 timeshare 1,109 1,085 2.2 segment revenues 6,455 6,271 2.9 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 3,405 3,124 9.0 other revenues 69 66 4.5 intersegment fees elimination (194 ) (185 ) 4.9 total revenues $ 9,735 $ 9,276 4.9 adjusted ebitda: ownership $ 926 $ 793 16.8 management and franchise 1,271 1,180 7.7 timeshare 297 252 17.9 corporate and other (284 ) (269 ) 5.6 adjusted ebitda $ 2,210 $ 1,956 13.0 ownership ownership segment revenues increased $69 million primarily as a result of an improvement in revpar of 4.6 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2013 compared with year ended december 31, 2012 revenues owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our owned and leased hotels. our ownership segment's adjusted ebitda increased $133 million primarily as a result of the increase in ownership segment revenues and the decrease in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels of $83 million. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2013 compared with year ended december 31, 2012 operating expenses owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the decrease in operating expenses. management and franchise refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2013 compared with year ended december 31, 2012 revenues management and franchise and other" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our managed and franchised properties. our management and franchise segment's adjusted ebitda increased as a result of the increase in management and franchise segment revenues. timeshare refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2013 compared with year ended december 31, 2012 revenues timeshare" for a discussion of the increase in revenues from our timeshare segment. our timeshare segment's adjusted ebitda increased $45 million primarily as a result of the $24 million increase in timeshare revenue and the $28 million decrease in timeshare operating expense. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2013 compared with year ended december 31, 2012 operating expenses timeshare for a discussion of the decrease in operating expenses from our timeshare segment. supplemental financial data for unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries as of december 31, 2014 , we owned majority or controlling financial interests in 52 hotels, representing 28,156 rooms. see "part i item 2. properties" for more information on each of our owned hotels. of these owned properties, 29 hotels, including the waldorf astoria new york, representing an aggregate of 21,261 rooms as of december 31, 2014 , were owned by subsidiaries that we collectively refer to as our "unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries." the properties held by our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries secure a $3.5 billion commercial mortgage-backed securities loan secured by 23 u.s. owned real estate assets (the "cmbs loan"), a $525 million mortgage loan secured by the waldorf astoria new york (the "waldorf astoria loan") and a $64 million mortgage loan secured by five other properties, are not included in the c 60 ollateral securing our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility (the "senior secured credit facility") and the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries do not guarantee obligations under our senior secured credit facility or our $1.5 billion of 5.625% senior notes due 2021 (the "senior notes"). in addition, the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries are not subject to any of the restrictive covenants in the indenture that governs our senior notes. for further discussion, see " liquidity and capital resources" and note 13 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. in february 2015, we completed the sale of the waldorf astoria new york and repaid the waldorf astoria loan in full. in addition, in february 2015 we also acquired five properties that will be considered unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries. for further discussion see note 30 : " subsequent events " in our consolidated financial statements. we have included this supplemental financial data to comply with certain financial information requirements regarding our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries set forth in the indenture that governs our senior notes. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries represented 19.3 percent of our total revenues, 23.2 percent of net income attributable to hilton stockholders and 24.4 percent of our adjusted ebitda, and as of december 31, 2014 , represented 33.3 percent of our total assets and 31.4 percent of our total liabilities. the following table presents supplemental unaudited financial data, as required by the indenture, for our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) revenues $ 2,022 $ 1,880 $ 1,754 net income attributable to hilton stockholders 156 186 159 capital expenditures for property and equipment 150 134 264 adjusted ebitda (1) 612 560 464 cash provided by (used in): operating activities 436 364 343 investing activities (147 ) (162 ) (264 ) financing activities (308 ) (186 ) (64 ) ____________ (1) the following table provides a reconciliation of our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries' ebitda and adjusted ebitda to net income attributable to hilton stockholders, which we believe is the most closely comparable u.s. gaap measure. year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) adjusted ebitda $ 612 $ 560 $ 464 other gain, net (1) 23 other adjustment items (3 ) (13 ) (7 ) ebitda 632 547 457 interest expense (2) (169 ) (31 ) income tax expense (110 ) (132 ) (114 ) depreciation and amortization (197 ) (198 ) (184 ) net income attributable to hilton stockholders $ 156 $ 186 $ 159 ____________ (1) other gain, net on the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries reflects a $23 million pre-tax gain recognized as a result of an equity investments exchange which occurred in the third quarter of 2014. see note 3 : " acquisitions " in our consolidated financial statements. (2) interest expense on the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries reflects $4,025 million of long-term debt securing these properties that was entered into in october 2013 and $64 million mortgage loan assumed in july 2014. prior to october 2013, the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries did not have outstanding long-term debt during the periods presented. 61 the following table presents supplemental unaudited financial data, as required by the indenture, for our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries: december 31, 2014 2013 (in millions) assets $ 8,698 $ 8,649 liabilities 6,713 6,496 liquidity and capital resources overview as of december 31, 2014 , we had total cash and cash equivalents of $768 million , including $202 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. the majority of our restricted cash and cash equivalents balances relates to cash collateral on our self-insurance programs and escrowed cash from our timeshare operations. our known short-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for operating expenses and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, legal costs, operating costs associated with the management of hotels, interest and scheduled principal payments on our outstanding indebtedness, contract acquisition costs and capital expenditures for renovations and maintenance at our owned and leased hotels. our long-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for scheduled debt maturities, capital improvements at our owned and leased hotels, purchase commitments, costs associated with potential acquisitions and corporate capital expenditures. we finance our business activities primarily with existing cash and cash generated from our operations. we believe that this cash will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for operating expenses and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, legal costs and purchase commitments for the foreseeable future. the objectives of our cash management policy are to maintain the availability of liquidity, minimize operational costs and use available cash to pay down our outstanding debt. further, we have an investment policy that is focused on the preservation of capital and maximizing the return on new and existing investments across all three of our business segments. additionally, we have no amounts drawn on our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility (the "revolving credit facility"). as of december 31, 2014 , we have the ability to borrow up to $955 million after giving effect to $45 million of outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit facility. recent events affecting our liquidity and capital resources in february 2015, we completed the sale of the waldorf astoria new york for a purchase price of $1.95 billion and received $1.34 billion in net proceeds after giving effect to the payoff in full of outstanding amounts under the $525 million mortgage loan on the waldorf astoria new york and certain prorations, adjustments and transaction expenses. in addition, we acquired five properties for a total purchase price of $1.76 billion, including the assumption of a $450 million mortgage loan secured by two of the properties. this mortgage loan is scheduled to mature in april 2018, but may be extended by one year at the borrower's option, subject to customary conditions. the interest rate payable on the mortgage loan is one-month libor plus 3.5 percent. if the mortgage loan is prepaid prior to may 1, 2015, there is a 1.0 percent prepayment fee; between may 1 and november 1, 2015, the prepayment fee is 0.5 percent. the mortgage loan is non-recourse to the borrower, subject to specified customary carve-outs. 62 sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents the following table summarizes our net cash flows and key metrics related to our liquidity: as of and for the year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2012 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,366 $ 2,101 $ 1,110 (35.0) 89.3 net cash used in investing activities (310 ) (382 ) (558 ) (18.9) (31.5) net cash used in financing activities (1,070 ) (1,863 ) (576 ) (42.6) nm (1) working capital surplus (2) 242 241 478 0.4 (49.6) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. (2) total current assets less total current liabilities. our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 1.11 , 1.11 and 1.20 as of december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. operating activities cash flow from operating activities is primarily generated from management and franchise revenues, operating income from our owned and leased hotels and resorts and sales of timeshare intervals. in a recessionary market, we may experience significant declines in travel and, thus, declines in demand for our hotel and resort rooms and timeshare intervals. a decline in demand could have a material effect on our cash flow from operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $1,366 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 , compared to $2,101 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 . the $735 million decrease was attributable to an increase in cash paid for taxes of $196 million during the year ended december 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 , due to higher taxable income in 2014, as well as a decrease in deferred revenues as of december 31, 2014. in 2013, we collected $650 million from the sales of hilton hhonors points, most of which was deferred revenue as of december 31, 2013. these were offset by a decrease in cash paid for interest of $21 million in 2014 compared to 2013 and other favorable timing differences in cash generated from operating activities. the net $991 million increase in cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2012 , was primarily due to $650 million received from the hilton hhonors points sales, which increased our deferred revenues, and improved operating income, excluding non-cash share-based compensation expense of $262 million. net cash provided by operating activities also increased during the year ended december 31, 2013 as a result of the releases of $42 million in collateral against outstanding letters of credit and $20 million of restricted cash from our timeshare operations. additionally, during the year ended december 31, 2012, our cash provided by operating activities was reduced by $76 million for collateral required to support potential future contributions to certain of our employee benefit plans. for further discussion, see note 20 : " employee benefit plans " in our consolidated financial statements. investing activities net cash used in investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 was $310 million , compared to $382 million during the year ended december 31, 2013 . the $72 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to $44 million in proceeds from asset dispositions in the year ended december 31, 2014, related to the sale of two hotels, a land parcel and land and easement rights. additionally, there were no acquisitions in 2014, while during the year ended december 31, 2013, there were acquisitions of $30 million for a parcel of land and a hotel. the $176 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2012 , was primarily attributable to a decrease in capital expenditures for property and equipment of $179 million, as a result of the completion of renovations at certain of our owned and leased properties in 2012, and a decrease in software capitalization costs of $25 million, as a result of corporate software projects that were completed in 2012. additionally, there was an increase in distributions from unconsolidated affiliates of $25 million, primarily related to the sales of our interests in two joint venture entities. the decrease in net cash used in investing activities was partially offset by an 63 increase in acquisitions of $30 million, primarily due to the acquisition of a parcel of land that we previously held under a long-term ground lease for $28 million. for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , we capitalized labor costs relating to our investing activities, including capital expenditures and software development, of $9 million, $15 million and $14 million, respectively. financing activities net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 was $1,070 million , compared to $1,863 million during the year ended december 31, 2013 . the $793 million decrease was due to a decrease in net repayments of debt of $2,041 million. the higher net repayments of debt in 2013 was primarily due to the debt refinancing. additionally, in december 2013 we received $1,243 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock from our ipo. net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2013 increased $1,287 million compared to the year ended december 31, 2012 due to a $2,357 million increase in net repayments of debt, primarily related to an increase in unscheduled, voluntary debt repayments on our senior mortgage loans and secured mezzanine loans (the "secured debt"), the repayment of the secured debt in connection with the debt refinancing and unscheduled, voluntary repayments of $350 million on our term loans subsequent to the debt refinancing. the increase in net debt repayments was offset by $1,243 million in proceeds from our ipo, which was used to repay amounts outstanding on our term loans. additionally, we paid $180 million of debt issuance costs related to the debt refinancing. capital expenditures our capital expenditures for property and equipment of $ 268 million , $254 million and $433 million made during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, primarily included expenditures related to the renovation of existing owned and leased properties and our corporate facilities. our software capitalization costs of $69 million , $78 million and $103 million during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 related to various systems initiatives for the benefit of our hotel owners and our overall corporate operations. senior secured credit facility our revolving credit facility provides for $1.0 billion in borrowings, including the ability to draw up to $150 million in the form of letters of credit. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $45 million of letters of credit outstanding on our revolving credit facility, leaving us with a borrowing capacity of $955 million . we are currently required to pay a commitment fee of 0.125 percent per annum under the revolving credit facility in respect of the unused commitments thereunder. debt as of december 31, 2014 , our total indebtedness, excluding $221 million of our share of debt of our investments in affiliates, was approximately $11.7 billion, including $879 million of non-recourse debt. for further information on our total indebtedness and the debt refinancing, refer to note 13 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. the obligations of the senior secured credit facility are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by us and all of our direct or indirect wholly owned material domestic subsidiaries, excluding our subsidiaries that are prohibited from providing guarantees as a result of the agreements governing our timeshare facility and/or our securitized timeshare debt and our subsidiaries that secure our cmbs loan and our waldorf astoria loan. additionally, none of our foreign subsidiaries or our non-wholly owned domestic subsidiaries guarantee the senior secured credit facility. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to reduce capital expenditures, issue additional equity securities or draw on our revolving credit facility. our ability to make scheduled principal payments and to pay interest on our debt depends on the future performance of our operations, which is subject to general conditions in or affecting the hotel and timeshare industries that are beyond our control. letters of credit we had a total of $45 million and $51 million in letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively, the majority of which were outstanding under the revolving credit facility and related to our guarantees on debt and other obligations of third parties and self-insurance programs. the maturities of the letters of credit were within one year as of december 31, 2014 . 64 contractual obligations the following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of december 31, 2014 : payments due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) long-term debt (1)(2) $ 12,967 $ 428 $ 1,095 $ 4,665 $ 6,779 non-recourse debt (2) 781 129 341 120 191 capital lease obligations recourse 181 15 12 12 142 non-recourse 331 23 46 46 216 operating leases 3,107 263 493 457 1,894 purchase commitments 79 23 49 1 6 total contractual obligations $ 17,446 $ 881 $ 2,036 $ 5,301 $ 9,228 ____________ (1) the initial maturity date of the $862 million variable-rate component of the cmbs loan is november 1, 2015. we have assumed all extensions, which are solely at our option, were exercised. (2) includes principal, as well as estimated interest payments. for our variable-rate debt we have assumed a constant 30-day libor rate of 0.16 percent as of december 31, 2014 . the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of december 31, 2014 was $401 million . these amounts are excluded from the table above because they are uncertain and subject to the findings of the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where we are subject to tax. it is possible that the amount of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could change during the next year. refer to note 19 : " income taxes " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. in addition to the purchase commitments in the table above, in the normal course of business we enter into purchase commitments for which we are reimbursed by the owners of our managed and franchised hotels. these obligations have minimal or no effect on our net income and cash flow. off-balance sheet arrangements our off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2014 included letters of credit of $45 million, guarantees of $25 million for debt and obligations of third parties, performance guarantees with possible cash outlays totaling approximately $119 million , of which we have accrued $45 million as of december 31, 2014 for estimated probable exposure, and construction contract commitments of approximately $68 million for capital expenditures at our owned, leased and consolidated vie hotels. our contracts contain clauses that allow us to cancel all or some portion of the work. if cancellation of a contract occurred, our commitment would be any costs incurred up to the cancellation date, in addition to any costs associated with the discharge of the contract. additionally, during 2010, in conjunction with a lawsuit settlement, an affiliate of our sponsor entered into service contracts with the plaintiff. as part of the settlement, we entered into a guarantee with the plaintiff to pay any shortfall that this affiliate does not fund related to those service contracts. the remaining potential exposure under this guarantee as of december 31, 2014 was approximately $33 million . see note 25 : " commitments and contingencies " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion on these amounts. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods and the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. we believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies are critical because they involve a higher degree of judgment, and the estimates required to be made were based on assumptions that are inherently uncertain. as a result, these accounting policies could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and related disclosures. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates and judgments based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to reflect the current circumstances. while we believe our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information presently available. actual 65 results may differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions and conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of the board of directors. property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives we evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net book value of the assets if we determine there are indicators of potential impairment. if it is determined that the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations as impairment losses. as part of the process described above, we exercise judgment to: determine if there are indicators of impairment present. factors we consider when making this determination include assessing the overall effect of trends in the hospitality industry and the general economy, historical experience, capital costs and other asset-specific information; determine the projected undiscounted future cash flows when indicators of impairment are present. judgment is required when developing projections of future revenues and expenses based on estimated growth rates over the expected useful life of the asset group. these estimated growth rates are based on historical operating results, as well as various internal projections and external sources; and determine the asset fair value when required. in determining the fair value, we often use internally-developed discounted cash flow models. assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models include estimating cash flows, which may require us to adjust for specific market conditions, as well as capitalization rates, which are based on location, property or asset type, market-specific dynamics and overall economic performance. the discount rate takes into account our weighted average cost of capital according to our capital structure and other market specific considerations. we had $7,483 million of property and equipment, net and $1,980 million of intangible assets with finite lives as of december 31, 2014 . changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. in conjunction with our regular assessment of impairment, we did not identify any property and equipment with indicators of impairment for which a 10 percent reduction in our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows would result in impairment losses. we did not identify any intangible assets with finite lives for which a 10 percent reduction in our estimates of undiscounted future cash flows, projected operating results or other significant assumptions would result in impairment losses. investments in affiliates we evaluate our investments in affiliates for impairment when there are indicators that the fair value of our investment may be less than our carrying value. we record an impairment loss when we determine there has been an "other-than-temporary" decline in the investment's fair value. if an identified event or change in circumstances requires an evaluation to determine if the value of an investment may have an other-than-temporary decline, we assess the fair value of the investment based on the accepted valuation methods, which include discounted cash flows, estimates of sales proceeds and external appraisals. if an investment's fair value is below its carrying value and the decline is considered to be other-than-temporary, we will recognize an impairment loss in equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates for equity method investments or impairment losses for cost method investments in our consolidated statements of operations. our investments in affiliates consist primarily of our interests in entities that own and/or operate hotels. as such, the factors we consider when determining if there are indicators of potential impairment are similar to property and equipment discussed above. if there are indicators of potential impairment, we estimate the fair value of our equity method and cost method investments by internally developed discounted cash flow models. the principal factors used in our discounted cash flow models that require judgment are the same as the items discussed in property and equipment above. 66 we had $170 million of investments in affiliates as of december 31, 2014 . changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of investments in affiliates could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. in conjunction with our regular assessment of impairment, we did not identify any investments in affiliates with indicators of impairment for which a 10 percent change in our estimates of future cash flows or other significant assumptions would result in material impairment losses. acquisitions property and equipment are recorded at fair value and allocated to land, buildings and leasehold improvements and furniture and equipment using appraisals and valuations performed by management and independent third parties. fair values are based on the exit price (i.e., the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date). we evaluate several factors, including market data for similar assets, expected future cash flows discounted at risk adjusted rates and replacement cost for the assets to determine an appropriate exit price when evaluating the fair value of our assets. other assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination are recorded based on the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date. changes to these factors could affect the measurement and allocation of fair value. goodwill we review the carrying value of our goodwill by comparing the carrying value of our reporting units to their fair value. our reporting units are the same as our operating segments as described in note 24 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. we perform this evaluation annually or at an interim date if indicators of impairment exist. in any given year we may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. if we cannot determine qualitatively that the fair value is in excess of the carrying value, or we decide to bypass the qualitative assessment, we proceed to the two-step quantitative process. in the first step, we evaluate the fair value of our reporting units quantitatively. when determining fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models, as well as market conditions relative to the operations of our reporting units. under the discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates, and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal projections and external sources. the weighted average cost of capital is estimated based on each reporting units' cost of debt and equity and a selected capital structure. the selected capital structure for each reporting unit is based on consideration of capital structures of comparable publicly traded companies operating in the business of that reporting unit. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step must be performed. in the second step, we estimate the implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined by taking the fair value of the reporting unit and allocating it to all of its assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. we had $6,154 million of goodwill as of december 31, 2014 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment testing could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. a change in our estimates and assumptions that would reduce the fair value of each reporting units by 10 percent would not result in an impairment of any of our reporting units. brands we evaluate our brand intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the brand is below the carrying value. when determining fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models for hotels that we manage or franchise. under the discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal estimates. if a brand's estimated current fair value is less than its respective carrying value, the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations within impairment losses. we had $4,963 million of brand intangible assets as of december 31, 2014 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our brands impairment testing, most notably revenue growth rates and discount rates, could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. a change in our estimates and assumptions that would reduce the fair value of each of our brands by 10 percent would not result in an impairment of any of the brand intangible assets. 67 hilton hhonors hilton hhonors defers revenue received from participating hotels and program partners in an amount equal to the estimated cost per point of the future redemption obligation. we engage outside actuaries to assist in determining the fair value of the future award redemption obligation using statistical formulas that project future point redemptions based on factors that require judgment, including an estimate of "breakage" (points that will never be redeemed), an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed and the cost of the points to be redeemed. the cost of the points to be redeemed includes further estimates of available room nights, occupancy rates, room rates and any devaluation or appreciation of points based on changes in reward prices or changes in points earned per stay. we had $1,169 million of guest loyalty liability as of december 31, 2014 , including $449 million in current liabilities. changes in the estimates used in developing our breakage rate could result in a material change to our guest loyalty liability. a 10 percent decrease to the breakage estimate used in determining future award redemption obligations would increase our guest loyalty liability by approximately $44 million. allowance for loan losses the allowance for loan losses is related to the receivables generated by our financing of timeshare interval sales, which are secured by the underlying timeshare properties. we determine our timeshare financing receivables to be past due based on the contractual terms of the individual mortgage loans. we use a technique referred to as static pool analysis as the basis for determining our general reserve requirements on our timeshare financing receivables. the adequacy of the related allowance is determined by management through analysis of several factors requiring judgment, such as current economic conditions and industry trends, as well as the specific risk characteristics of the portfolio, including assumed default rates. we had $96 million of allowance for loan losses as of december 31, 2014 . changes in the estimates used in developing our default rates could result in a material change to our allowance. a 10 percent increase to our default rates used in the allowance calculation would increase our allowance for loan losses by approximately $39 million. income taxes we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates. we regularly review our deferred tax assets to assess their potential realization and establish a valuation allowance for portions of such assets that we believe will not be ultimately realized. in performing this review, we make estimates and assumptions regarding projected future taxable income, the expected timing of reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. a change in these assumptions may increase or decrease our valuation allowance resulting in an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. we use a prescribed more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return if there is uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. assumptions and estimates are used to determine the more-likely-than-not designation. changes to these assumptions and estimates can lead to an additional income tax expense (benefit), which can materially change our consolidated financial statements. legal contingencies we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. an estimated loss from a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income if it is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. significant judgment is required when we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. changes in these factors could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. 68 consolidations we use judgment when evaluating whether we have a controlling financial interest in our partnerships and other investments, including the assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. if the entity is considered to be a vie, we use judgment determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, and then consolidate those vies for which we have determined we are the primary beneficiary. if the entity in which we hold an interest does not meet the definition of a vie, we evaluate whether we have a controlling financial interest through our voting interests in the entity. we consolidate entities when we own more than 50 percent of the voting shares of a company or have a controlling general partner interest of a partnership, assuming the absence of other factors determining control, including the ability of minority owners to participate in or block certain decisions. changes to judgments used in evaluating our partnerships and other investments could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. share-based compensation the process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing the associated expense over the requisite service period involves significant management estimates and assumptions. refer to note 21 : " share-based compensation " in our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. any changes to these estimates will affect the amount of compensation expense we recognize with respect to future grants. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect future income, cash flows and fair value of the company, depending on changes to interest rates and/or foreign exchange rates. in certain situations, we may seek to reduce cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. we continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. we enter into derivative financial arrangements to the extent they meet the objective described above, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable-rate debt. interest rates on our variable-rate debt discussed below are based on one-month and three-month libor, so we are most vulnerable to changes in this rate. under the terms of the cmbs loan and waldorf astoria loan entered into in connection with the debt refinancing, we are required to hedge interest rate risk using derivative instruments. under the cmbs loan, we entered into an interest rate cap agreement in the notional amount of the variable-rate component, or $875 million, which caps one-month libor at 6.0 percent for the initial term of the variable-rate component. under the waldorf astoria loan, we entered into an interest rate cap agreement in the notional amount of the loan, or $525 million, which caps one-month libor at 4.0 percent for the first 24 months. thereafter, we are required to renew the interest rate cap agreement annually. as of december 31, 2014, the fair value of these interest rate caps were immaterial to our consolidated balance sheet. additionally, in october 2013, we entered into four interest rate swap agreements for a combined notional amount of $1.45 billion, with a term of five years, which swapped the floating three-month libor on a portion of the term loans to a fixed rate of 1.87 percent. the carrying value and fair value of these four interest rate swaps was $4 million as of december 31, 2014 . refer to note 16 : " derivative instruments and hedging activities " in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion of the derivative instruments. 69 the following table sets forth the contractual maturities and the total fair values as of december 31, 2014 for our financial instruments that are materially affected by interest rate risk: maturities by period 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter carrying value fair value (in millions, excluding average interest rates) assets: fixed-rate timeshare financing receivables $ 140 $ 122 $ 126 $ 127 $ 121 $ 388 $ 1,024 $ 1,021 average interest rate (1) 12.15 % liabilities: fixed-rate long-term debt (2) $ $ 132 $ 54 $ 2,625 $ $ 1,500 $ 4,311 $ 4,419 average interest rate (1) 4.96 % fixed-rate non-recourse debt (3) $ 98 $ 94 $ 75 $ 57 $ 45 $ 112 $ 481 $ 476 average interest rate (1) 1.98 % variable-rate long-term debt (4) $ $ 1 $ 63 $ 1,387 $ $ 5,000 $ 6,451 $ 6,418 average interest rate (1) 3.31 % variable-rate non-recourse debt (5) $ $ $ 150 $ $ $ $ 150 $ 150 average interest rate (1) 1.16 % ____________ (1) average interest rate as of december 31, 2014 . (2) excludes capital lease obligations with a carrying value of $72 million as of december 31, 2014 . (3) represents the securitized timeshare debt. (4) the initial maturity date of the $862 million variable-rate component of the cmbs loan is november 1, 2015. we have assumed all extensions, which are solely at our option, were exercised. (5) represents the timeshare facility. refer to note 17 : " fair value measurements " in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion of the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in various foreign currencies and are exposed to earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. this exposure is primarily related to our international assets and liabilities, whose value could change materially in reference to our usd reporting currency. the most significant effect of changes to foreign currency values include certain intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested and management and franchise fee revenues earned in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2014, we held nine short-term foreign exchange forward contracts in the notional amount of $28 million to offset exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currency denominated cash balances. 70risk factors 12 risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "hilton worldwide," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these hotels, resorts and rooms, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest and the remaining hotels, resorts and rooms are owned by our third-party owners. investment funds associated with or designated by the blackstone group l.p. and their affiliates, our former majority owners, are referred to herein as "blackstone." reference to "adr" or "average daily rate" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period and "revpar" or "revenue per available room" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for further discussion of these financial metrics. item 1. business overview hilton worldwide is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,610 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 758,502 rooms in 100 countries and territories as of december 31, 2015 . in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of distinct, market-leading brands. our flagship full service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio includes our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton, our full service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites by hilton, our focused service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton, our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations, and our new focused service midscale brand, tru by hilton, launched in january 2016. more than 164,000 employees proudly serve in our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate offices around the world, and we have approximately 51 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors. 2 we operate our business through three segments: (1) ownership; (2) management and franchise; and (3) timeshare. these complementary business segments enable us to capitalize on our strong brands, global market presence and significant operational scale. our ownership segment consists of 146 hotels with 59,463 rooms as of december 31, 2015 in which we have an ownership interest or lease. through our management and franchise segment, which consists of 4,419 hotels with 691,887 rooms as of december 31, 2015 , we manage hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. through our timeshare segment, which consists of 45 properties comprising 7,152 units as of december 31, 2015 , we market and sell timeshare intervals; operate timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club; and provide consumer financing. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which includes over 266,000 rooms, all in our management and franchise segment, scheduled to be opened in the future. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 134,000 rooms, representing over half of our development pipeline, were under construction. the expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals, including limited supply growth, in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong, well-defined brands that operate throughout the lodging industry chain scales and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton hhonors loyalty program. satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and with existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal initial capital investment from us, put us in a strong position to further improve our business and serve our customers in the future. in february 2016, we announced a plan to separate a substantial portion of our ownership business, consisting primarily of our owned hotels located in the u.s., as well as our timeshare business from hilton to form two additional new publicly traded companies. see item 1a. risk factors and note 29: "subsequent events" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2015 brand (1) chain scale countries/ territories properties rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 12 25 10,303 1.4% ritz carlton, four seasons, peninsula, st. regis, mandarin oriental luxury 18 23 7,785 1.0% park hyatt, sofitel, intercontinental, jw marriott, fairmont lifestyle n/a kimpton, le meridien, hyatt centric, joie de vivre upper upscale 85 572 206,635 27.2% marriott, sheraton, hyatt regency, radisson blu, renaissance, westin, sofitel upper upscale 4 18 4,704 0.6% autograph collection, luxury collection, ascend collection, tribute upscale 38 457 110,772 14.6% sheraton, crowne plaza, wyndham, radisson, holiday inn, renaissance, delta, hyatt upper upscale 6 225 53,284 7.0% renaissance, sheraton, hyatt, residence inn upscale 26 668 94,031 12.4% courtyard, holiday inn, hyatt place, novotel, aloft, four points upper midscale 20 2,108 210,372 27.7% fairfield inn, holiday inn express, comfort inn, la quinta inns, wyngate, americinn upscale 3 387 43,401 5.7% residence inn, hyatt house, staybridge suites, candlewood suites upper midscale 3 73 7,600 1.0% candlewood suites, towne place suites, hawthorn suites timeshare 4 45 7,152 0.9% marriott vacation club, starwood vacation ownership, hyatt residence, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes nine unbranded properties with 2,463 rooms, representing approximately 0.5 percent of total rooms. the table also excludes our new midscale brand, tru by hilton, which launched in january 2016. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. 4 waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 25 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of 23 properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton represents a new hotel concept that has defined a more accessible lifestyle category, targeting the upper upscale price point segment. canopy represents an energizing, new hotel in the neighborhood offering simple, guest-directed service, thoughtful local choices and comfortable spaces. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture. as of december 31, 2015 , 28 properties were in the pipeline or in various states of approval. the first canopy hotel is expected to open in march 2016. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with 572 hotels and resorts in 85 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services. curio a collection by hilton : curio a collection by hilton is created for travelers who seek local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. curio is made up of a collection of hand-picked hotels that retain their unique identity but are able to leverage the many benefits of the hilton worldwide global platform, including our common reservation and customer care service and hilton hhonors guest loyalty program. as of december 31, 2015 , curio had 18 properties open, contributing 4,704 rooms to our portfolio, and 66 properties were in the pipeline or in various states of approval. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree's 457 hotels and resorts are united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and its iconic warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. embassy suites by hilton : embassy suites by hilton comprises 225 upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive all of the amenities our properties have to offer at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale brand with 668 hotels that strives to ensure today's busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. from the serta perfect sleeper bed, to complimentary internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, hilton garden inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys. hampton by hilton : hampton by hilton is our moderately priced, upper midscale hotel with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton by hilton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel rooms and suite accommodations within one property. across our over 2,100 hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the 100% hampton guarantee. tru by hilton: tru by hilton is a new midscale brand, launched in january 2016, designed to attract a cross-generation of travelers who share a desire for human connection. tru by hilton embraces the value-conscious traveler, offering a back-to-basics experience. each property will include lively social spaces in a large, first floor lobby with a work, play and eat zone, all with a unique personality. as of february 16, 2016 , tru by hilton had commitments for 163 properties. the first property is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2016. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton are our upscale, extended-stay hotels that feature residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. these 387 hotels provide the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. 5 home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton are upper midscale hotels that provide a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. each of the brand's 73 hotels, 28 of which were opened in 2015, offers complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. during 2015, 143 properties were added to our pipeline, and as of december 31, 2015 , 297 properties were in the pipeline or in various states of approval. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations ("hgv") is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of our 45 club properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our customer loyalty program hilton hhonors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,500 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other rewards. members also can transact with over 140 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 51 million members. our hilton hhonors members represented approximately 52 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues to us and our hotel owners of over $15 billion during the year ended december 31, 2015 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton hhonors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton hhonors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. our business we operate our business across three segments: (1) ownership; (2) management and franchise; and (3) timeshare. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 23 : " business segments " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 as of december 31, 2015 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,148 8 5,523 12 6,671 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 153 1 984 2 1,137 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 2 431 2 431 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 3 1,029 3 1,029 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 294 1 294 europe 1 191 2 707 1 256 4 1,154 middle east and africa 1 614 2 641 3 1,255 asia pacific 11 3,417 1 636 12 4,053 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 25 23,143 40 24,042 173 52,622 238 99,807 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 1,836 23 7,656 19 5,994 45 15,486 europe 69 17,927 57 16,650 28 7,879 154 42,456 middle east and africa 6 2,276 45 14,186 1 410 52 16,872 asia pacific 7 3,380 68 25,652 8 2,982 83 32,014 curio - a collection by hilton u.s. 1 224 1 998 12 2,679 14 3,901 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 525 3 525 europe 1 278 1 278 doubletree by hilton u.s. 11 4,264 28 8,276 274 65,848 313 78,388 americas (excluding u.s.) 4 785 17 3,283 21 4,068 europe 11 3,456 56 9,665 67 13,121 middle east and africa 9 1,874 4 488 13 2,362 asia pacific 41 11,868 2 965 43 12,833 embassy suites by hilton u.s. 10 2,523 34 9,154 173 39,702 217 51,379 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 623 5 1,282 8 1,905 hilton garden inn u.s. 2 290 4 430 569 77,887 575 78,607 americas (excluding u.s.) 7 948 28 4,371 35 5,319 europe 18 3,306 27 4,453 45 7,759 middle east and africa 5 1,017 5 1,017 asia pacific 8 1,329 8 1,329 hampton by hilton u.s. 1 130 50 6,178 1,927 186,943 1,978 193,251 americas (excluding u.s.) 11 1,416 77 9,164 88 10,580 europe 10 1,537 30 4,630 40 6,167 asia pacific 2 374 2 374 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 25 2,687 345 38,791 370 41,478 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 224 15 1,699 17 1,923 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 71 7,376 71 7,376 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 97 1 127 2 224 other 3 1,054 3 957 3 452 9 2,463 lodging 146 59,463 544 158,848 3,875 533,039 4,565 751,350 hilton grand vacations 45 7,152 45 7,152 total 146 59,463 589 166,000 3,875 533,039 4,610 758,502 ____________ (1) includes properties owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. 7 ownership we are one of the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties includes a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as new york city, london, san francisco, chicago, o paolo and tokyo. the portfolio includes iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including the hilton new york, hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. in recent years, we have expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners. we have focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we have developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property, and at many of our hotels we have renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. at certain of our hotels, we are evaluating options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use. management and franchise through our management and franchise segment we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel and timeshare management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of the hotel's gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. owners are also responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton hhonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2015 , we managed 544 hotels with 158,848 rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels and timeshare properties. the initial terms of our management agreements for full service hotels typically are 20 years. in certain cases where we have entered into a franchise agreement as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full service hotels. typically, these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. in addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, as of december 31, 2015 , we provided management services for 45 timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and 146 owned, leased and joint venture hotels from which we recognized management fee revenues. revenues from our owned and leased hotels are eliminated in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 8 franchising we franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. we do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained. we approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. in some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system. as of december 31, 2015 , we franchised 3,875 hotels with 533,039 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton hhonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. our franchise agreements typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new construction and approximately 10 to 20 years for properties that are converted from other brands. at the expiration of the initial term, we may have a contractual right or obligation to relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. timeshare our timeshare segment generates revenue from three primary sources: timeshare sales we market and sell timeshare interests owned by hilton and third parties. we also source timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. this allows us to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers using the hilton grand vacations brand in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property. resort operations we manage the hgv club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. we generate rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under our hgv club program. we also earn revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties. financing we provide consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans. hgv's primary product is the marketing and selling of fee-simple timeshare interests deeded in perpetuity, developed either by us or by third parties. this ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the hgv club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of club points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the hgv system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to hilton hhonors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 5,000 resorts included in the rci timeshare vacation exchange network. in addition, we operate the hilton club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the hilton new york, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the hgv club. as of december 31, 2015 , hgv managed a global system of 45 resorts and the hgv club and the hilton club had nearly 250,000 members in total. traditionally, timeshare operators have funded 100 percent of the investment necessary to acquire land and construct timeshare properties. in 2010, we began sourcing timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. these agreements enable us to generate fees from the sales and marketing of the timeshare intervals and club memberships and from the management of the timeshare properties without requiring us to fund acquisition and construction costs. in addition, we source intervals by acquiring units in third-party developed properties, which requires less capital than constructing timeshare properties. our supply of third-party developed timeshare intervals was approximately 114,000 , or 85 9 percent of our total supply, as of december 31, 2015 , and the percentage of sales of timeshare intervals developed by third parties was 66 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015 . competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor, owner and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor, owner and operator of hotels makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, hong kong and shanghai hotels, limited, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, m venpick hotels and resorts, starwood hotels &amp; resorts worldwide and wyndham worldwide corporation. in the timeshare business, we compete with other hotel and resort timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use and opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards. in addition, we compete based on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as with national and independent timeshare resale companies and owners reselling existing timeshare intervals, which could reduce demand or prices for sales of new timeshare intervals. our primary competitors in the timeshare space include diamond resorts international, hyatt residence club, marriott vacations worldwide, starwood vacation ownership and wyndham vacation resorts. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result, in an environment of declining revenues the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. the vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. 10 government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employee, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in 100 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws, tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. in addition to our hotel accommodations, we operate a number of laundry facilities located in certain areas where we have multiple properties. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of wastes that we generate, including at locations where such wastes have been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination pursuant to our management or franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and operated properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. insurance we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers' compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned hotels. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks. these policies provide 11 coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insured retentions or deductibles. our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners or, if not participating, must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. non-u.s. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. all other insurance programs purchased by hotel owners must meet our requirements. in addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of hotels owned by such third parties. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1946 when our subsidiary hilton hotels corporation, later renamed hilton worldwide, inc., was incorporated in delaware. employees as of december 31, 2015 , more than 164,000 people were employed at our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate locations. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 31 percent of our employees globally (or 32 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including energy, food, employee compensation and benefits and insurance; increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; 12 the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the quality of services provided by franchisees; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture agreements; cyclical over-building in the hotel and timeshare industries; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or timeshare resorts in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services (including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services) and vacation ownership services and products; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at properties that we manage, franchise, own, lease or develop, as well as demand for timeshare properties. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; 13 conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) and h1n1 (swine flu); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; and organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned properties, limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and reducing overall demand for timeshare intervals. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels and timeshare properties decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full service and focused service hotels and timeshare properties, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators, home and apartment sharing services and independent timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and 14 redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater commercial, financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively, or they could offer a type of lodging product that customers find attractive but that we do not offer. competition for management and franchise agreements we compete to enter into management and franchise agreements. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. competition for timeshare sales we compete with other timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use, opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange their owned interval for use of other timeshare properties or other travel rewards as well as brand name recognition and reputation. our ability to attract and retain purchasers of timeshare intervals depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our timeshare offerings from those offered by others. if we are unable to do so, our ability to compete effectively for sales of timeshare intervals could be adversely affected. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us for our services may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events at our managed, owned, leased or timeshare properties can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the recent expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity. we also could face legal claims related to negative events, along with resulting adverse publicity. if the perceived quality of our brands declines, or if our reputation is damaged, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. our management and franchise business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party hotel owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise agreements, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new and renew management and franchise agreements. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise agreements and enter into new agreements on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 15 our management and franchise business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our management and franchise business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise agreements, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. a repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise agreement or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline and limit additional development to further expand our hotel portfolio. if third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise agreements require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands. this includes requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise agreements require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a hotel owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. we own or lease a substantial amount of real property, which subjects us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; loss in value of real estate due to changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located; 16 increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned properties because we, as the owner, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed more than a century ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis, or acts of terrorism; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements, including certain of our iconic and most profitable properties. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. 17 we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third-party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. our timeshare business is subject to risks associated with regulation, third-party owners and providing financing to purchasers. the timeshare business is subject to extensive regulation. we develop, manage, market and sell timeshare intervals. certain of these activities are subject to extensive state regulation in both the state in which the timeshare property is located and the states in which the timeshare property is marketed and sold. federal regulation of certain marketing practices also applies. in addition, because we provide financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals and also service the resulting loans as well as the loans on inventory sold by third-party developers for which we provide marketing services, we are subject to various federal and state regulations, including those requiring disclosure to borrowers regarding the terms of their loans as well as settlement, servicing and collection of loans. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws in connection with our timeshare business, we may be unable to offer timeshare intervals or associated financing in certain areas, which could result in a decline in timeshare revenues. a decline in timeshare interval inventory or our failure to enter into and maintain timeshare management agreements may have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition to timeshare interval supply from our owned timeshare properties, we source interval supply through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. if we fail to develop timeshare properties or are unsuccessful in entering into new agreements with third-party developers, we may experience a decline in timeshare interval supply available to be sold by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. in addition, a decline in timeshare interval supply could result in both a decrease of financing revenues that are generated from purchasers of timeshare intervals and fee revenues that are generated by providing management, loan and collection services to the timeshare properties. 18 if purchasers default on the loans that we provide to finance their purchases of timeshare intervals, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. providing secured financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals subjects us to the risk of purchaser default. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately $1,082 million of timeshare financing receivables outstanding. if a purchaser defaults under the financing that we provide, we could be forced to write off the loan and reclaim ownership of the timeshare interval. we may be unable to resell the property in a timely manner or at the same price, or at all. also, if a purchaser of a timeshare interval defaults on the related loan during the early part of the amortization period, we may not have recovered the marketing, selling and general and administrative costs associated with the sale of that timeshare interval. if we are unable to recover any of the principal amount of the loan from a defaulting purchaser, or if the allowances for losses from such defaults are inadequate, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2015 , we had a total of 1,616 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing, obtaining governmental or regulatory approvals and adequate financing. as a result, not every hotel in our development pipeline may develop into a new hotel that enters our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we launched a new midscale brand, tru by hilton, in january 2016. we introduced a new brand, canopy by hilton, in october 2014, opened our first curio - a collection by hilton hotel in august 2014, opened the first herb n' kitchen restaurant in 2013 and opened our first home2 suites by hilton hotel in 2011. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states in recent years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton hhonors customer loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we move production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of 19 these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are difficult to detect for long periods of time, and we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. in november 2015, we announced that we had identified and taken action to eradicate unauthorized malware that targeted payment card information in some point-of-sale systems in our hotels and had determined that specific payment card information was targeted by this malware. we expect we will be subject to additional cyber-attacks in the future and may experience data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other costs or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. in addition, states and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 20 we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we may also divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns or otherwise fail to achieve the benefits we expect. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws and court or agency interpretation of such laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu member states' implementation of proposed privacy regulation, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. 21 the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our business. if these bookings increase, certain hospitality intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. these hospitality intermediaries also may reduce these bookings by de-ranking our hotels in search results on their platforms, and other online providers may divert business away from our hotels. although our agreements with many hospitality intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites. internet travel intermediaries also have been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual consumers or "transient" business rather than group and convention business, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and convention business. consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, and the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online, by telephone to our call centers or through devices via our mobile application, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton hhonors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton hhonors guest loyalty and rewards program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise agreements. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the guest's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton hhonors arranges with third-party service providers, such as airlines and rail companies, to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton hhonors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. 22 because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 100 countries and territories around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 22 percent and 25 percent of our revenues for each of the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues from and the market value of our properties located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we own or manage in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under 23 the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of blackstone, affiliates of blackstone may also be considered our affiliates. other affiliates of blackstone have in the past and may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference herein. disclosure of such activities and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, significant customers, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 31 percent ) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 11 percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. 24 labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage, and engage employees. we employ or manage approximately 164,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to manage and staff the managed, owned and leased hotels could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have over 5,100 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other intellectual property. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; 25 require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; limit our ability to develop new intellectual property; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions. however, these hedging agreements may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses vary, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the program ) to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2020, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. 26 terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2006 through december 31, 2010 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton hhonors guest loyalty and reward program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $874 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. see note 18 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. 27 changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. in addition, the national labor relations board has revised its standard for joint employee relationships, which could increase our risk of being considered a joint employer with our franchisees. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital 28 expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise agreement or negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. our obligations under this settlement expired in march 2015 except that certain managed and franchised hotels that were required to conduct surveys of their facilities remain under an obligation to remove architectural barriers at their facilities through march 15, 2022 and we have an obligation to have an independent consultant to monitor those barrier removal efforts during this period. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects that could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic and political conditions; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including puerto rico and egypt have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our proposed spin-offs the proposed spin-offs of our ownership business and timeshare business are contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management, and may have a material adverse effect on us whether or not they are completed. on february 26, 2016, we announced a plan to pursue a separation of a substantial portion of our ownership business, consisting primarily of our owned hotels located in the u.s. (the "ownership business"), and our timeshare business into separate, publicly-traded companies through spin-offs. the proposed spin-offs are subject to customary conditions, including, but not limited to, the receipt of opinions concerning the tax-free nature of the transactions and the qualification of the entity holding the ownership business as a real estate investment trust (a "reit") for u.s. federal income tax purposes, effectiveness 29 of appropriate filings with the securities and exchange commission and final approval by our board of directors. in addition, ability to execute the transaction as intended, unanticipated developments or changes in the macroeconomic environment, credit markets and equity markets, as well as other market conditions, may affect our proposed spin-offs. for these and other reasons, we may not complete the spin-offs as expected or at all. whether or not we complete the spin-offs, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we may be subject to certain risks and consequences as a result of pursuing the spin-offs, including, among others, the following: execution of the proposed spin-offs will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract them from the operation of our business and the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us; our employees may be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-offs; we will be required to pay significant costs and expenses relating to the spin-offs, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, whether or not the spin-offs are completed; and we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the spin-offs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the price of our common stock. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-offs. although we believe that separating our ownership business and our timeshare business by means of the spin-offs will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our stockholders, the spin-offs may not provide results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. for example, if the statutory and regulatory requirements relating to reits are not met, the benefits of spinning off the ownership business may be reduced or may be unavailable to us and our stockholders. in addition, we will incur one-time costs and ongoing costs in connection with, or as a result of, the spin-offs, including costs of operating as independent, publicly-traded companies that the spun-off businesses will no longer be able to share. those costs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize. if we do not realize the intended benefits of the spin-offs or if our costs exceed our estimates, the company or the businesses that are spun off could suffer a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if the proposed spin-offs of our ownership business and our timeshare business are completed, the trading price of our common stock will decline. we expect the trading price of our common stock immediately following the spin-offs, which will only represent the value of our remaining management and franchise business, to be lower than immediately prior to the spin-offs because the trading price for our common stock will no longer reflect the value of our ownership business and our timeshare business. following the spin-offs, the aggregate value of your common stock of the company and the businesses that are spun off may be less than the aggregate value at which the company's common stock might have traded had the spin-offs not occurred. the common stock of the company and the businesses that are spun off that you may hold following the spin-offs may collectively trade at an aggregate value less than the value at which the company's common stock might have traded had the spin-offs not occurred due to, among other factors, the expected or actual future performance of either the company or the businesses that are spun off as separate, independent companies and the future stockholder base and market for the company's common stock and the shares of the businesses that are spun off. the proposed spin-offs could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. the spin-offs are conditioned on an opinion of tax counsel regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). although the private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, the continued validity of the private letter ruling will be based upon and subject to the accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the irs by us. further, the private letter ruling is limited to specified aspects of the spin-offs under section 355 of the code and will not represent a determination by the irs that all of the requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock and to us have been satisfied. moreover, if 30 any statement or representation upon which the private letter ruling is based is incorrect or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts upon which the private letter ruling is based are materially different from the facts that prevail at the time of the spin-offs, the private letter ruling could be invalidated. the opinion will similarly rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spun-off companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. additionally, recently enacted legislation denies tax-free treatment to a spin-off in which either the distributing corporation or the spun-off corporation is a reit and prevents a distributing corporation or a spun-off corporation from electing reit status for a 10-year period following a tax-free spin-off. under an effective date provision, the legislation does not apply to distributions described in a ruling request initially submitted to the irs before december 7, 2015. because our initial request for the private letter ruling was submitted before that date and because we believe the distribution will be considered to have been described in that initial request, we believe the legislation will not apply to the spin-off of our ownership business. however, no ruling will be obtained on that issue and thus no assurance can be given in that regard. in particular, the irs or a court could disagree with our view regarding the effective date provision based on any differences that exist between the description in the ruling request and the actual facts relating to the spin-offs. if the legislation applied to the spin-off of our ownership business, either the spin-off would not qualify for tax-free treatment or the entity holding the ownership business would not be eligible to elect reit status for a 10-year period following the spin-off. if the spin-offs and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, the company would be subject to a substantial tax liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-offs were taxable, each holder of our common stock who receives shares of the new spin-off companies would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2015 , our total indebtedness was approximately $10.5 billion , including $726 million of non-recourse debt, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt and non-recourse debt for the years ending december 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively, were $227 million , $285 million and $3,493 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. 31 we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indenture that governs our senior notes, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the agreements that govern our commercial mortgage-backed securities loan impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after june 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 25 percent of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.9 to 1.0. our subsidiaries' mortgage-backed loans also require them to maintain certain debt service coverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 32 servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding two risk factors would increase. risks related to ownership of our common stock blackstone's interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future. blackstone and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 45.9 percent of our common stock as of december 31, 2015 . moreover, under our bylaws and the stockholders' agreement with blackstone, for so long as it retains specified levels of ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by blackstone. thus, for so long as blackstone continues to own specified percentages of our stock, it will be able to influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, during that period of time, blackstone will have influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. in particular, for so long as blackstone continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, it may be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. blackstone and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in real estate generally and in the hospitality industry in particular. in the ordinary course of their business activities, blackstone and its affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our stockholders. for example, blackstone owns interests in extended stay america, inc. and la quinta holdings inc., and certain other investments in the hotel industry and may pursue ventures that compete directly or indirectly with us. in addition, affiliates of blackstone directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel or timeshare development projects, that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of blackstone, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his or her director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. blackstone also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may be unavailable to us. in addition, blackstone may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. 33 we are no longer a "controlled company" within the meaning of new york stock exchange ("nyse") rules, however, we are permitted to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements during a one-year transition period. as a result, our stockholders do not yet have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to those requirements. until may 2015, blackstone controlled a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. as a result, we were a "controlled company" within the meaning of nyse corporate governance standards. under these rules, a "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance standards and has one year following ceasing to be a controlled company to comply with all of nyse's corporate governance standards. because of these nyse transition rules for companies that cease to be controlled companies, we are not required to have our nominating and corporate governance committee consist entirely of independent directors until may 2016. we intend to continue to utilize the nyse's transition period for companies that are no longer controlled companies. accordingly, our stockholders do not yet have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the nyse corporate governance requirements. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we may change our dividend policy at any time. our board of directors declared our first quarterly dividend in july 2015. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by certain investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. in addition, blackstone has pledged substantially all of the shares of our common stock held by it pursuant to a margin loan agreement and any foreclosure upon those shares could result in sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, which could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. pursuant to a registration rights agreement, blackstone and certain management stockholders have the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares represented approximately 46.7 percent of our outstanding common stock as of december 31, 2015 . these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. in addition, as of december 31, 2015 , we had 9,251,754 shares of common stock to be issued upon vesting or exercise of outstanding equity-based awards and an aggregate of 68,627,645 shares of common stock available for future issuance under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan. we filed a registration statement on form s-8 under the securities act to register shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our 2013 omnibus incentive plan. accordingly, shares registered under such registration statements will be available for sale in the open market. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of 34 undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which the parties to our stockholders agreement cease to beneficially own at least 40 percent of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 item 8 financial statements and supplementary data 73 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures 132 item 9a. controls and procedures 132 item 9b. other information 132 part iii 133 item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 133 item 11. executive compensation 133 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 133 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 133 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 133 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 134 signatures 137 1 part i forward -looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the "securities act") and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "exchange act"). these statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to our expectations regarding the performance of our business, our financial results, our liquidity and capital resources, the proposed spin-offs and other non-historical statements. in some cases, you can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "outlook," "believes," "expects," "potential," "continues," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seeks," "approximately," "projects," "predicts," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates" or the negative version of these words or other comparable words. such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, among others, risks inherent to the hospitality industry, macroeconomic factors beyond our control, competition for hotel guests, management and franchise agreements and timeshare sales, risks related to doing business with third-party hotel owners, our significant investments in owned and leased real estate, performance of our information technology systems, growth of reservation channels outside of our system, risks of doing business outside of the united states of america ("u.s."), risks related to our proposed spin-offs and our indebtedness. accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. we believe these factors include but are not limited to those described under "part i item 1a. risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "hilton worldwide," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these hotels, resorts and rooms, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest and the remaining hotels, resorts and rooms are owned by our third-party owners. investment funds associated with or designated by the blackstone group l.p. and their affiliates, our former majority owners, are referred to herein as "blackstone." reference to "adr" or "average daily rate" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period and "revpar" or "revenue per available room" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for further discussion of these financial metrics. item 1. business overview hilton worldwide is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,610 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 758,502 rooms in 100 countries and territories as of december 31, 2015 . in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of distinct, market-leading brands. our flagship full service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio includes our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton, our full service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites by hilton, our focused service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton, our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations, and our new focused service midscale brand, tru by hilton, launched in january 2016. more than 164,000 employees proudly serve in our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate offices around the world, and we have approximately 51 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors. 2 we operate our business through three segments: (1) ownership; (2) management and franchise; and (3) timeshare. these complementary business segments enable us to capitalize on our strong brands, global market presence and significant operational scale. our ownership segment consists of 146 hotels with 59,463 rooms as of december 31, 2015 in which we have an ownership interest or lease. through our management and franchise segment, which consists of 4,419 hotels with 691,887 rooms as of december 31, 2015 , we manage hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. through our timeshare segment, which consists of 45 properties comprising 7,152 units as of december 31, 2015 , we market and sell timeshare intervals; operate timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club; and provide consumer financing. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which includes over 266,000 rooms, all in our management and franchise segment, scheduled to be opened in the future. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 134,000 rooms, representing over half of our development pipeline, were under construction. the expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals, including limited supply growth, in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong, well-defined brands that operate throughout the lodging industry chain scales and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton hhonors loyalty program. satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and with existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal initial capital investment from us, put us in a strong position to further improve our business and serve our customers in the future. in february 2016, we announced a plan to separate a substantial portion of our ownership business, consisting primarily of our owned hotels located in the u.s., as well as our timeshare business from hilton to form two additional new publicly traded companies. see item 1a. risk factors and note 29: "subsequent events" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2015 brand (1) chain scale countries/ territories properties rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 12 25 10,303 1.4% ritz carlton, four seasons, peninsula, st. regis, mandarin oriental luxury 18 23 7,785 1.0% park hyatt, sofitel, intercontinental, jw marriott, fairmont lifestyle n/a kimpton, le meridien, hyatt centric, joie de vivre upper upscale 85 572 206,635 27.2% marriott, sheraton, hyatt regency, radisson blu, renaissance, westin, sofitel upper upscale 4 18 4,704 0.6% autograph collection, luxury collection, ascend collection, tribute upscale 38 457 110,772 14.6% sheraton, crowne plaza, wyndham, radisson, holiday inn, renaissance, delta, hyatt upper upscale 6 225 53,284 7.0% renaissance, sheraton, hyatt, residence inn upscale 26 668 94,031 12.4% courtyard, holiday inn, hyatt place, novotel, aloft, four points upper midscale 20 2,108 210,372 27.7% fairfield inn, holiday inn express, comfort inn, la quinta inns, wyngate, americinn upscale 3 387 43,401 5.7% residence inn, hyatt house, staybridge suites, candlewood suites upper midscale 3 73 7,600 1.0% candlewood suites, towne place suites, hawthorn suites timeshare 4 45 7,152 0.9% marriott vacation club, starwood vacation ownership, hyatt residence, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes nine unbranded properties with 2,463 rooms, representing approximately 0.5 percent of total rooms. the table also excludes our new midscale brand, tru by hilton, which launched in january 2016. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. 4 waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 25 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of 23 properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton represents a new hotel concept that has defined a more accessible lifestyle category, targeting the upper upscale price point segment. canopy represents an energizing, new hotel in the neighborhood offering simple, guest-directed service, thoughtful local choices and comfortable spaces. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture. as of december 31, 2015 , 28 properties were in the pipeline or in various states of approval. the first canopy hotel is expected to open in march 2016. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with 572 hotels and resorts in 85 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services. curio a collection by hilton : curio a collection by hilton is created for travelers who seek local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. curio is made up of a collection of hand-picked hotels that retain their unique identity but are able to leverage the many benefits of the hilton worldwide global platform, including our common reservation and customer care service and hilton hhonors guest loyalty program. as of december 31, 2015 , curio had 18 properties open, contributing 4,704 rooms to our portfolio, and 66 properties were in the pipeline or in various states of approval. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree's 457 hotels and resorts are united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and its iconic warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. embassy suites by hilton : embassy suites by hilton comprises 225 upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive all of the amenities our properties have to offer at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale brand with 668 hotels that strives to ensure today's busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. from the serta perfect sleeper bed, to complimentary internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, hilton garden inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys. hampton by hilton : hampton by hilton is our moderately priced, upper midscale hotel with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton by hilton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel rooms and suite accommodations within one property. across our over 2,100 hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the 100% hampton guarantee. tru by hilton: tru by hilton is a new midscale brand, launched in january 2016, designed to attract a cross-generation of travelers who share a desire for human connection. tru by hilton embraces the value-conscious traveler, offering a back-to-basics experience. each property will include lively social spaces in a large, first floor lobby with a work, play and eat zone, all with a unique personality. as of february 16, 2016 , tru by hilton had commitments for 163 properties. the first property is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2016. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton are our upscale, extended-stay hotels that feature residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. these 387 hotels provide the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. 5 home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton are upper midscale hotels that provide a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. each of the brand's 73 hotels, 28 of which were opened in 2015, offers complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. during 2015, 143 properties were added to our pipeline, and as of december 31, 2015 , 297 properties were in the pipeline or in various states of approval. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations ("hgv") is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of our 45 club properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our customer loyalty program hilton hhonors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,500 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other rewards. members also can transact with over 140 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 51 million members. our hilton hhonors members represented approximately 52 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues to us and our hotel owners of over $15 billion during the year ended december 31, 2015 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton hhonors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton hhonors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. our business we operate our business across three segments: (1) ownership; (2) management and franchise; and (3) timeshare. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 23 : " business segments " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 as of december 31, 2015 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,148 8 5,523 12 6,671 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 153 1 984 2 1,137 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 2 431 2 431 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 3 1,029 3 1,029 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 294 1 294 europe 1 191 2 707 1 256 4 1,154 middle east and africa 1 614 2 641 3 1,255 asia pacific 11 3,417 1 636 12 4,053 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 25 23,143 40 24,042 173 52,622 238 99,807 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 1,836 23 7,656 19 5,994 45 15,486 europe 69 17,927 57 16,650 28 7,879 154 42,456 middle east and africa 6 2,276 45 14,186 1 410 52 16,872 asia pacific 7 3,380 68 25,652 8 2,982 83 32,014 curio - a collection by hilton u.s. 1 224 1 998 12 2,679 14 3,901 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 525 3 525 europe 1 278 1 278 doubletree by hilton u.s. 11 4,264 28 8,276 274 65,848 313 78,388 americas (excluding u.s.) 4 785 17 3,283 21 4,068 europe 11 3,456 56 9,665 67 13,121 middle east and africa 9 1,874 4 488 13 2,362 asia pacific 41 11,868 2 965 43 12,833 embassy suites by hilton u.s. 10 2,523 34 9,154 173 39,702 217 51,379 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 623 5 1,282 8 1,905 hilton garden inn u.s. 2 290 4 430 569 77,887 575 78,607 americas (excluding u.s.) 7 948 28 4,371 35 5,319 europe 18 3,306 27 4,453 45 7,759 middle east and africa 5 1,017 5 1,017 asia pacific 8 1,329 8 1,329 hampton by hilton u.s. 1 130 50 6,178 1,927 186,943 1,978 193,251 americas (excluding u.s.) 11 1,416 77 9,164 88 10,580 europe 10 1,537 30 4,630 40 6,167 asia pacific 2 374 2 374 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 25 2,687 345 38,791 370 41,478 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 224 15 1,699 17 1,923 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 71 7,376 71 7,376 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 97 1 127 2 224 other 3 1,054 3 957 3 452 9 2,463 lodging 146 59,463 544 158,848 3,875 533,039 4,565 751,350 hilton grand vacations 45 7,152 45 7,152 total 146 59,463 589 166,000 3,875 533,039 4,610 758,502 ____________ (1) includes properties owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. 7 ownership we are one of the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties includes a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as new york city, london, san francisco, chicago, o paolo and tokyo. the portfolio includes iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including the hilton new york, hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. in recent years, we have expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners. we have focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we have developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property, and at many of our hotels we have renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. at certain of our hotels, we are evaluating options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use. management and franchise through our management and franchise segment we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel and timeshare management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of the hotel's gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. owners are also responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton hhonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2015 , we managed 544 hotels with 158,848 rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels and timeshare properties. the initial terms of our management agreements for full service hotels typically are 20 years. in certain cases where we have entered into a franchise agreement as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full service hotels. typically, these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. in addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, as of december 31, 2015 , we provided management services for 45 timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and 146 owned, leased and joint venture hotels from which we recognized management fee revenues. revenues from our owned and leased hotels are eliminated in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 8 franchising we franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. we do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained. we approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. in some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system. as of december 31, 2015 , we franchised 3,875 hotels with 533,039 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton hhonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. our franchise agreements typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new construction and approximately 10 to 20 years for properties that are converted from other brands. at the expiration of the initial term, we may have a contractual right or obligation to relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. timeshare our timeshare segment generates revenue from three primary sources: timeshare sales we market and sell timeshare interests owned by hilton and third parties. we also source timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. this allows us to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers using the hilton grand vacations brand in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property. resort operations we manage the hgv club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. we generate rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under our hgv club program. we also earn revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties. financing we provide consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans. hgv's primary product is the marketing and selling of fee-simple timeshare interests deeded in perpetuity, developed either by us or by third parties. this ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the hgv club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of club points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the hgv system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to hilton hhonors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 5,000 resorts included in the rci timeshare vacation exchange network. in addition, we operate the hilton club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the hilton new york, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the hgv club. as of december 31, 2015 , hgv managed a global system of 45 resorts and the hgv club and the hilton club had nearly 250,000 members in total. traditionally, timeshare operators have funded 100 percent of the investment necessary to acquire land and construct timeshare properties. in 2010, we began sourcing timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. these agreements enable us to generate fees from the sales and marketing of the timeshare intervals and club memberships and from the management of the timeshare properties without requiring us to fund acquisition and construction costs. in addition, we source intervals by acquiring units in third-party developed properties, which requires less capital than constructing timeshare properties. our supply of third-party developed timeshare intervals was approximately 114,000 , or 85 9 percent of our total supply, as of december 31, 2015 , and the percentage of sales of timeshare intervals developed by third parties was 66 percent for the year ended december 31, 2015 . competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor, owner and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor, owner and operator of hotels makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, hong kong and shanghai hotels, limited, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, m venpick hotels and resorts, starwood hotels &amp; resorts worldwide and wyndham worldwide corporation. in the timeshare business, we compete with other hotel and resort timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use and opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards. in addition, we compete based on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as with national and independent timeshare resale companies and owners reselling existing timeshare intervals, which could reduce demand or prices for sales of new timeshare intervals. our primary competitors in the timeshare space include diamond resorts international, hyatt residence club, marriott vacations worldwide, starwood vacation ownership and wyndham vacation resorts. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result, in an environment of declining revenues the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. the vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. 10 government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employee, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in 100 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws, tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. in addition to our hotel accommodations, we operate a number of laundry facilities located in certain areas where we have multiple properties. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of wastes that we generate, including at locations where such wastes have been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination pursuant to our management or franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and operated properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. insurance we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers' compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned hotels. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks. these policies provide 11 coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insured retentions or deductibles. our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners or, if not participating, must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. non-u.s. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. all other insurance programs purchased by hotel owners must meet our requirements. in addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of hotels owned by such third parties. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1946 when our subsidiary hilton hotels corporation, later renamed hilton worldwide, inc., was incorporated in delaware. employees as of december 31, 2015 , more than 164,000 people were employed at our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate locations. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 31 percent of our employees globally (or 32 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including energy, food, employee compensation and benefits and insurance; increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; 12 the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the quality of services provided by franchisees; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture agreements; cyclical over-building in the hotel and timeshare industries; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or timeshare resorts in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services (including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services) and vacation ownership services and products; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at properties that we manage, franchise, own, lease or develop, as well as demand for timeshare properties. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; 13 conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) and h1n1 (swine flu); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; and organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned properties, limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and reducing overall demand for timeshare intervals. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels and timeshare properties decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full service and focused service hotels and timeshare properties, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators, home and apartment sharing services and independent timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and 14 redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater commercial, financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively, or they could offer a type of lodging product that customers find attractive but that we do not offer. competition for management and franchise agreements we compete to enter into management and franchise agreements. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. competition for timeshare sales we compete with other timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use, opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange their owned interval for use of other timeshare properties or other travel rewards as well as brand name recognition and reputation. our ability to attract and retain purchasers of timeshare intervals depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our timeshare offerings from those offered by others. if we are unable to do so, our ability to compete effectively for sales of timeshare intervals could be adversely affected. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us for our services may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events at our managed, owned, leased or timeshare properties can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the recent expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity. we also could face legal claims related to negative events, along with resulting adverse publicity. if the perceived quality of our brands declines, or if our reputation is damaged, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. our management and franchise business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party hotel owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise agreements, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our management and franchise business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new and renew management and franchise agreements. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise agreements and enter into new agreements on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 15 our management and franchise business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our management and franchise business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise agreements, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. a repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise agreement or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline and limit additional development to further expand our hotel portfolio. if third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise agreements require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands. this includes requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise agreements require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a hotel owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. we own or lease a substantial amount of real property, which subjects us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; loss in value of real estate due to changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located; 16 increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned properties because we, as the owner, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed more than a century ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis, or acts of terrorism; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements, including certain of our iconic and most profitable properties. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. 17 we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third-party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. our timeshare business is subject to risks associated with regulation, third-party owners and providing financing to purchasers. the timeshare business is subject to extensive regulation. we develop, manage, market and sell timeshare intervals. certain of these activities are subject to extensive state regulation in both the state in which the timeshare property is located and the states in which the timeshare property is marketed and sold. federal regulation of certain marketing practices also applies. in addition, because we provide financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals and also service the resulting loans as well as the loans on inventory sold by third-party developers for which we provide marketing services, we are subject to various federal and state regulations, including those requiring disclosure to borrowers regarding the terms of their loans as well as settlement, servicing and collection of loans. if we fail to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws in connection with our timeshare business, we may be unable to offer timeshare intervals or associated financing in certain areas, which could result in a decline in timeshare revenues. a decline in timeshare interval inventory or our failure to enter into and maintain timeshare management agreements may have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition to timeshare interval supply from our owned timeshare properties, we source interval supply through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. if we fail to develop timeshare properties or are unsuccessful in entering into new agreements with third-party developers, we may experience a decline in timeshare interval supply available to be sold by us, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. in addition, a decline in timeshare interval supply could result in both a decrease of financing revenues that are generated from purchasers of timeshare intervals and fee revenues that are generated by providing management, loan and collection services to the timeshare properties. 18 if purchasers default on the loans that we provide to finance their purchases of timeshare intervals, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. providing secured financing to some purchasers of timeshare intervals subjects us to the risk of purchaser default. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately $1,082 million of timeshare financing receivables outstanding. if a purchaser defaults under the financing that we provide, we could be forced to write off the loan and reclaim ownership of the timeshare interval. we may be unable to resell the property in a timely manner or at the same price, or at all. also, if a purchaser of a timeshare interval defaults on the related loan during the early part of the amortization period, we may not have recovered the marketing, selling and general and administrative costs associated with the sale of that timeshare interval. if we are unable to recover any of the principal amount of the loan from a defaulting purchaser, or if the allowances for losses from such defaults are inadequate, the revenues and profits that we derive from the timeshare business could be reduced. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2015 , we had a total of 1,616 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing, obtaining governmental or regulatory approvals and adequate financing. as a result, not every hotel in our development pipeline may develop into a new hotel that enters our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we launched a new midscale brand, tru by hilton, in january 2016. we introduced a new brand, canopy by hilton, in october 2014, opened our first curio - a collection by hilton hotel in august 2014, opened the first herb n' kitchen restaurant in 2013 and opened our first home2 suites by hilton hotel in 2011. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states in recent years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton hhonors customer loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we move production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of 19 these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are difficult to detect for long periods of time, and we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. in november 2015, we announced that we had identified and taken action to eradicate unauthorized malware that targeted payment card information in some point-of-sale systems in our hotels and had determined that specific payment card information was targeted by this malware. we expect we will be subject to additional cyber-attacks in the future and may experience data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other costs or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. in addition, states and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 20 we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we may also divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns or otherwise fail to achieve the benefits we expect. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws and court or agency interpretation of such laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu member states' implementation of proposed privacy regulation, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. 21 the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our business. if these bookings increase, certain hospitality intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. these hospitality intermediaries also may reduce these bookings by de-ranking our hotels in search results on their platforms, and other online providers may divert business away from our hotels. although our agreements with many hospitality intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites. internet travel intermediaries also have been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual consumers or "transient" business rather than group and convention business, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and convention business. consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, and the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online, by telephone to our call centers or through devices via our mobile application, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton hhonors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton hhonors guest loyalty and rewards program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise agreements. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the guest's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton hhonors arranges with third-party service providers, such as airlines and rail companies, to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton hhonors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. 22 because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 100 countries and territories around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 22 percent and 25 percent of our revenues for each of the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues from and the market value of our properties located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we own or manage in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under 23 the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of blackstone, affiliates of blackstone may also be considered our affiliates. other affiliates of blackstone have in the past and may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference herein. disclosure of such activities and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, significant customers, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 31 percent ) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 11 percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. 24 labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage, and engage employees. we employ or manage approximately 164,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to manage and staff the managed, owned and leased hotels could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have over 5,100 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other intellectual property. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; 25 require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; limit our ability to develop new intellectual property; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions. however, these hedging agreements may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses vary, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the program ) to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2020, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. 26 terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2006 through december 31, 2010 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton hhonors guest loyalty and reward program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $874 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. see note 18 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. 27 changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. in addition, the national labor relations board has revised its standard for joint employee relationships, which could increase our risk of being considered a joint employer with our franchisees. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital 28 expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise agreement or negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. our obligations under this settlement expired in march 2015 except that certain managed and franchised hotels that were required to conduct surveys of their facilities remain under an obligation to remove architectural barriers at their facilities through march 15, 2022 and we have an obligation to have an independent consultant to monitor those barrier removal efforts during this period. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects that could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic and political conditions; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including puerto rico and egypt have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our proposed spin-offs the proposed spin-offs of our ownership business and timeshare business are contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management, and may have a material adverse effect on us whether or not they are completed. on february 26, 2016, we announced a plan to pursue a separation of a substantial portion of our ownership business, consisting primarily of our owned hotels located in the u.s. (the "ownership business"), and our timeshare business into separate, publicly-traded companies through spin-offs. the proposed spin-offs are subject to customary conditions, including, but not limited to, the receipt of opinions concerning the tax-free nature of the transactions and the qualification of the entity holding the ownership business as a real estate investment trust (a "reit") for u.s. federal income tax purposes, effectiveness 29 of appropriate filings with the securities and exchange commission and final approval by our board of directors. in addition, ability to execute the transaction as intended, unanticipated developments or changes in the macroeconomic environment, credit markets and equity markets, as well as other market conditions, may affect our proposed spin-offs. for these and other reasons, we may not complete the spin-offs as expected or at all. whether or not we complete the spin-offs, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we may be subject to certain risks and consequences as a result of pursuing the spin-offs, including, among others, the following: execution of the proposed spin-offs will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract them from the operation of our business and the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us; our employees may be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-offs; we will be required to pay significant costs and expenses relating to the spin-offs, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, whether or not the spin-offs are completed; and we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the spin-offs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the price of our common stock. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-offs. although we believe that separating our ownership business and our timeshare business by means of the spin-offs will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our stockholders, the spin-offs may not provide results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. for example, if the statutory and regulatory requirements relating to reits are not met, the benefits of spinning off the ownership business may be reduced or may be unavailable to us and our stockholders. in addition, we will incur one-time costs and ongoing costs in connection with, or as a result of, the spin-offs, including costs of operating as independent, publicly-traded companies that the spun-off businesses will no longer be able to share. those costs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize. if we do not realize the intended benefits of the spin-offs or if our costs exceed our estimates, the company or the businesses that are spun off could suffer a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if the proposed spin-offs of our ownership business and our timeshare business are completed, the trading price of our common stock will decline. we expect the trading price of our common stock immediately following the spin-offs, which will only represent the value of our remaining management and franchise business, to be lower than immediately prior to the spin-offs because the trading price for our common stock will no longer reflect the value of our ownership business and our timeshare business. following the spin-offs, the aggregate value of your common stock of the company and the businesses that are spun off may be less than the aggregate value at which the company's common stock might have traded had the spin-offs not occurred. the common stock of the company and the businesses that are spun off that you may hold following the spin-offs may collectively trade at an aggregate value less than the value at which the company's common stock might have traded had the spin-offs not occurred due to, among other factors, the expected or actual future performance of either the company or the businesses that are spun off as separate, independent companies and the future stockholder base and market for the company's common stock and the shares of the businesses that are spun off. the proposed spin-offs could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. the spin-offs are conditioned on an opinion of tax counsel regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). although the private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, the continued validity of the private letter ruling will be based upon and subject to the accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the irs by us. further, the private letter ruling is limited to specified aspects of the spin-offs under section 355 of the code and will not represent a determination by the irs that all of the requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock and to us have been satisfied. moreover, if 30 any statement or representation upon which the private letter ruling is based is incorrect or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts upon which the private letter ruling is based are materially different from the facts that prevail at the time of the spin-offs, the private letter ruling could be invalidated. the opinion will similarly rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spun-off companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. additionally, recently enacted legislation denies tax-free treatment to a spin-off in which either the distributing corporation or the spun-off corporation is a reit and prevents a distributing corporation or a spun-off corporation from electing reit status for a 10-year period following a tax-free spin-off. under an effective date provision, the legislation does not apply to distributions described in a ruling request initially submitted to the irs before december 7, 2015. because our initial request for the private letter ruling was submitted before that date and because we believe the distribution will be considered to have been described in that initial request, we believe the legislation will not apply to the spin-off of our ownership business. however, no ruling will be obtained on that issue and thus no assurance can be given in that regard. in particular, the irs or a court could disagree with our view regarding the effective date provision based on any differences that exist between the description in the ruling request and the actual facts relating to the spin-offs. if the legislation applied to the spin-off of our ownership business, either the spin-off would not qualify for tax-free treatment or the entity holding the ownership business would not be eligible to elect reit status for a 10-year period following the spin-off. if the spin-offs and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, the company would be subject to a substantial tax liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-offs were taxable, each holder of our common stock who receives shares of the new spin-off companies would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2015 , our total indebtedness was approximately $10.5 billion , including $726 million of non-recourse debt, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt and non-recourse debt for the years ending december 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively, were $227 million , $285 million and $3,493 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. 31 we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indenture that governs our senior notes, the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities and the agreements that govern our commercial mortgage-backed securities loan impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after june 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 25 percent of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.9 to 1.0. our subsidiaries' mortgage-backed loans also require them to maintain certain debt service coverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 32 servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding two risk factors would increase. risks related to ownership of our common stock blackstone's interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future. blackstone and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 45.9 percent of our common stock as of december 31, 2015 . moreover, under our bylaws and the stockholders' agreement with blackstone, for so long as it retains specified levels of ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by blackstone. thus, for so long as blackstone continues to own specified percentages of our stock, it will be able to influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, during that period of time, blackstone will have influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. in particular, for so long as blackstone continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, it may be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. blackstone and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in real estate generally and in the hospitality industry in particular. in the ordinary course of their business activities, blackstone and its affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our stockholders. for example, blackstone owns interests in extended stay america, inc. and la quinta holdings inc., and certain other investments in the hotel industry and may pursue ventures that compete directly or indirectly with us. in addition, affiliates of blackstone directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel or timeshare development projects, that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of blackstone, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his or her director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. blackstone also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may be unavailable to us. in addition, blackstone may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. 33 we are no longer a "controlled company" within the meaning of new york stock exchange ("nyse") rules, however, we are permitted to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements during a one-year transition period. as a result, our stockholders do not yet have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to those requirements. until may 2015, blackstone controlled a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. as a result, we were a "controlled company" within the meaning of nyse corporate governance standards. under these rules, a "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance standards and has one year following ceasing to be a controlled company to comply with all of nyse's corporate governance standards. because of these nyse transition rules for companies that cease to be controlled companies, we are not required to have our nominating and corporate governance committee consist entirely of independent directors until may 2016. we intend to continue to utilize the nyse's transition period for companies that are no longer controlled companies. accordingly, our stockholders do not yet have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the nyse corporate governance requirements. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we may change our dividend policy at any time. our board of directors declared our first quarterly dividend in july 2015. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by certain investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. in addition, blackstone has pledged substantially all of the shares of our common stock held by it pursuant to a margin loan agreement and any foreclosure upon those shares could result in sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, which could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. pursuant to a registration rights agreement, blackstone and certain management stockholders have the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares represented approximately 46.7 percent of our outstanding common stock as of december 31, 2015 . these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. in addition, as of december 31, 2015 , we had 9,251,754 shares of common stock to be issued upon vesting or exercise of outstanding equity-based awards and an aggregate of 68,627,645 shares of common stock available for future issuance under the 2013 omnibus incentive plan. we filed a registration statement on form s-8 under the securities act to register shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our 2013 omnibus incentive plan. accordingly, shares registered under such registration statements will be available for sale in the open market. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of 34 undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which the parties to our stockholders agreement cease to beneficially own at least 40 percent of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. 35 item 2. properties hotel properties owned or controlled hotels as of december 31, 2015 , we owned a majority or controlling financial interest in the following 56 hotels, representing 29,269 rooms. property location rooms ownership waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts waldorf astoria orlando orlando, fl, usa 498 100% casa marina, a waldorf astoria resort key west, fl, usa 311 100% the reach, a waldorf astoria resort key west, fl, usa 150 100% hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton hawaiian village waikiki beach resort honolulu, hi, usa 2,860 100% hilton new york new york, ny, usa 1,985 100% hilton san francisco union square san francisco, ca, usa 1,919 100% hilton new orleans riverside new orleans, la, usa 1,622 100% hilton chicago chicago, il, usa 1,544 100% hilton waikoloa village waikoloa, hi, usa 1,241 100% hilton parc 55 san francisco, ca, usa 1,024 100% hilton orlando bonnet creek orlando, fl, usa 1,001 100% caribe hilton san juan, puerto rico 915 100% hilton chicago o'hare airport chicago, il, usa 860 100% hilton orlando lake buena vista orlando, fl, usa 814 100% hilton boston logan airport boston, ma, usa 599 100% pointe hilton squaw peak resort phoenix, az, usa 563 100% hilton miami airport miami, fl, usa 508 100% hilton atlanta airport atlanta, ga, usa 507 100% hilton o paulo morumbi o paulo, brazil 503 100% hilton mclean tysons corner mclean, va, usa 458 100% hilton seattle airport &amp; conference center seattle, wa, usa 396 100% hilton oakland airport oakland, ca, usa 360 100% hilton paris orly airport paris, france 340 100% hilton durban durban, south africa 324 100% hilton new orleans airport kenner, la, usa 317 100% hilton short hills short hills, nj, usa 304 100% hilton blackpool blackpool, united kingdom 274 100% hilton rotterdam rotterdam, netherlands 254 100% hilton chicago/oak brook suites oakbrook terrace, il, usa 211 100% hilton belfast belfast, united kingdom 198 100% hilton london angel islington london, united kingdom 190 100% hilton edinburgh grosvenor edinburgh, united kingdom 184 100% hilton coylumbridge coylumbridge, united kingdom 175 100% hilton bath city bath, united kingdom 173 100% hilton odawara resort &amp; spa odawara city, japan 173 100% hilton nuremberg nuremberg, germany 152 100% hilton milton keynes milton keynes, united kingdom 138 100% hilton belfast templepatrick golf &amp; country club templepatrick, united kingdom 129 100% hilton sheffield sheffield, united kingdom 128 100% curio - a collection by hilton juniper hotel cupertino, curio collection by hilton cupertino, ca, usa 224 100% doubletree by hilton doubletree by hilton washington dc crystal city arlington, va, usa 627 100% doubletree by hilton san jose san jose, ca, usa 505 100% doubletree by hilton ontario airport ontario, ca, usa 482 67% doubletree by hilton spokane city center spokane, wa, usa 375 10% 36 property location rooms ownership the fess parker santa barbara hotel a doubletree by hilton resort santa barbara, ca, usa 360 50% embassy suites by hilton embassy suites by hilton washington dc georgetown washington, d.c., usa 318 100% embassy suites by hilton parsippany parsippany, nj, usa 274 100% embassy suites by hilton kansas city plaza kansas city, mo, usa 266 100% embassy suites by hilton austin downtown town lake austin, tx, usa 259 100% embassy suites by hilton atlanta perimeter center atlanta, ga, usa 241 100% embassy suites by hilton san rafael marin county san rafael, ca, usa 235 100% embassy suites by hilton kansas city overland park overland park, ks, usa 199 100% embassy suites by hilton phoenix airport phoenix, az, usa 182 100% hilton garden inn hilton garden inn lax el segundo el segundo, ca, usa 162 100% hilton garden inn chicago/oakbrook terrace oakbrook terrace, il, usa 128 100% hampton by hilton hampton inn &amp; suites memphis shady grove memphis, tn, usa 130 100% joint venture hotels as of december 31, 2015 , we had a minority or noncontrolling financial interest in and operated the following 17 properties, representing 8,186 rooms. we have a right of first refusal to purchase additional equity interests in certain of these joint ventures. we manage each of the hotels for the entity owning or leasing the hotel. property location rooms ownership waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts waldorf astoria chicago chicago, il, usa 189 12% conrad hotels &amp; resorts conrad cairo cairo, egypt 614 10% conrad dublin dublin, ireland 191 48% hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton orlando orlando, fl, usa 1,417 20% hilton san diego bayfront san diego, ca, usa 1,190 25% hilton tokyo bay urayasu-shi, japan 819 24% hilton berlin berlin, germany 601 40% capital hilton washington, d.c., usa 550 25% hilton nagoya nagoya, japan 449 24% hilton la jolla torrey pines la jolla, ca, usa 394 25% hilton mauritius resort &amp; spa flic-en-flac, mauritius 193 20% hilton imperial dubrovnik dubrovnik, croatia 147 18% doubletree by hilton doubletree by hilton las vegas airport las vegas, nv, usa 190 50% doubletree by hilton missoula/edgewater missoula, mt, usa 171 50% embassy suites by hilton embassy suites by hilton alexandria old town alexandria, va, usa 288 50% embassy suites by hilton secaucus meadowlands secaucus, nj, usa 261 50% other kingston plantation condos myrtle beach, sc, usa 522 50% 37 leased hotels as of december 31, 2015 , we leased the following 73 hotels, representing 22,008 rooms. property location rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts rome cavalieri, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts rome, italy 370 waldorf astoria amsterdam amsterdam, netherlands 93 hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton tokyo (1) (shinjuku-ku) tokyo, japan 809 ramses hilton cairo, egypt 771 hilton london kensington london, united kingdom 601 hilton vienna vienna, austria 579 hilton tel aviv tel aviv, israel 560 hilton osaka (1) osaka, japan 527 hilton istanbul bosphorus istanbul, turkey 500 hilton salt lake city salt lake city, ut, usa 499 hilton munich park munich, germany 484 hilton munich city munich, germany 480 london hilton on park lane london, united kingdom 453 hilton diagonal mar barcelona barcelona, spain 433 hilton mainz mainz, germany 431 hilton trinidad &amp; conference centre port of spain, trinidad 418 hilton london heathrow airport london, united kingdom 398 hilton izmir izmir, turkey 380 hilton addis ababa addis ababa, ethiopia 372 hilton vienna danube waterfront vienna, austria 367 hilton frankfurt frankfurt, germany 342 hilton brighton metropole brighton, united kingdom 340 hilton sandton sandton, south africa 329 hilton milan milan, italy 320 hilton brisbane brisbane, australia 319 hilton glasgow glasgow, united kingdom 319 ankara hilton ankara, turkey 309 adana hilton adana, turkey 308 the waldorf hilton, london london, united kingdom 298 hilton cologne cologne, germany 296 hilton stockholm slussen stockholm, sweden 289 hilton nairobi (1) nairobi, kenya 287 hilton madrid airport madrid, spain 284 parmelia hilton perth parmelia perth, australia 284 hilton london canary wharf london, united kingdom 282 hilton amsterdam amsterdam, netherlands 271 hilton newcastle gateshead newcastle upon tyne, united kingdom 254 hilton vienna plaza vienna, austria 254 hilton bonn bonn, germany 252 hilton london tower bridge london, united kingdom 245 hilton london stansted airport stansted, united kingdom 239 hilton manchester airport manchester, united kingdom 230 hilton bracknell bracknell, united kingdom 215 hilton antwerp old town antwerp, belgium 210 hilton reading reading, united kingdom 210 hilton leeds city leeds, united kingdom 208 hilton watford watford, united kingdom 200 mersin hilton mersin, turkey 186 hilton warwick/stratford-upon-avon warwick, united kingdom 181 hilton leicester leicester, united kingdom 179 hilton innsbruck innsbruck, austria 176 hilton nottingham nottingham, united kingdom 176 38 property location rooms hilton st. anne's manor, bracknell wokingham, united kingdom 170 hilton london croydon croydon, united kingdom 168 hilton london green park london, united kingdom 163 hilton cobham cobham, united kingdom 158 hilton paris la defense paris, france 153 hilton east midlands airport derby, united kingdom 152 hilton maidstone maidstone, united kingdom 146 hilton avisford park, arundel arundel, united kingdom 140 hilton northampton northampton, united kingdom 139 hilton london hyde park london, united kingdom 132 hilton york york, united kingdom 131 hilton mainz city mainz, germany 127 hilton parksa istanbul istanbul, turkey 117 hilton puckrup hall, tewkesbury tewkesbury, united kingdom 112 hilton glasgow grosvenor glasgow, united kingdom 97 doubletree by hilton doubletree by hilton seattle airport seattle, wa, usa 850 doubletree by hilton san diego mission valley san diego, ca, usa 300 doubletree by hilton sonoma wine country rohnert park, ca, usa 245 doubletree by hilton durango durango, co, usa 159 other scandic sergel plaza stockholm (2) stockholm, sweden 403 the trafalgar, london london, united kingdom 129 ____________ (1) we own a majority or controlling financial interest, but less than a 100 percent interest, in entities that lease these properties. (2) the lease on this property expired at the end of december 31, 2015. corporate headquarters and regional offices our corporate headquarters are located at 7930 jones branch drive, mclean, virginia 22102. these offices consist of approximately 180,464 square feet of leased space. the lease for this property initially expires on december 31, 2019, with options to renew and increase the rentable square footage. we also have corporate offices in watford, england (europe), dubai, united arab emirates (middle east and africa) and singapore (asia pacific). additionally, to support our operations, we have our hilton hhonors and other commercial services office in addison, texas, the hilton grand vacations headquarters in orlando, florida and timeshare sales offices in the u.s. in hawaii, nevada, new york, florida, south carolina and utah and in japan and south korea. other non-operating real estate holdings include a centralized operations center located in memphis, tennessee, and our hilton reservations and customer care office in carrollton, texas. we believe that our existing office properties are in good condition and are sufficient and suitable for the conduct of our business. in the event we need to expand our operations, we believe that suitable space will be available on commercially reasonable terms. item 3. legal proceedings we are involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums, including proceedings involving tort and other general liability claims, employee claims, consumer protection claims and claims related to our management of certain hotel properties. most occurrences involving liability, claims of negligence and employees are covered by insurance with solvent insurance carriers. for those matters not covered by insurance, which include commercial matters, we recognize a liability when we believe the loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. we believe we have adequate reserves against such matters. we currently believe that the ultimate outcome of such lawsuits and proceedings will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. however, depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations in a particular period. 39 item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock began trading publicly on the nyse under the symbol "hlt" on december 12, 2013 . as of december 31, 2015 , there were approximately 35 holders of record of our common stock. this stockholder figure does not include a substantially greater number of holders whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers and other financial institutions. the following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the nyse for the indicated periods: stock price high low fiscal year ended december 31, 2015 first quarter $ 30.06 $ 24.36 second quarter 31.60 27.30 third quarter 28.52 20.93 fourth quarter 26.27 20.91 fiscal year ended december 31, 2014 first quarter $ 23.10 $ 20.55 second quarter 23.80 20.96 third quarter 25.92 23.15 fourth quarter 26.53 20.72 dividends we declared regular quarterly cash dividends beginning in the third quarter of 2015 and expect to continue paying regular dividends on a quarterly basis. we paid cash dividends of $0.07 per share on our common stock during the third and fourth quarters of 2015. we did not declare or pay any dividends during the first and second quarters of 2015, or the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 . any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. because we are a holding company and have no direct operations, we will only be able to pay dividends from funds we receive from our subsidiaries. 41 performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return since december 12, 2013 with the s&amp;p 500 index (" s&amp;p 500 ") and the s&amp;p hotels, resorts &amp; cruise lines index ("s&amp;p hotel"). the graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index was $100 on december 12, 2013 and that all dividends and other distributions were reinvested. 12/12/2013 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 hilton worldwide $100.0 $103.5 $121.3 $99.5 s&amp;p 500 $100.0 $104.1 $116.0 $115.1 s&amp;p hotel $100.0 $109.2 $132.8 $135.5 recent sales of unregistered securities none. issuer purchases of equity securities none. 42 item 6. selected financial data we derived the selected statement of operations data for the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 and the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. we derived the selected statement of operations data for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 and the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this annual report on form 10-k. our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period. the selected consolidated financial data below should be read together with the consolidated financial statements including the related notes thereto, and "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in millions, except per share data) statement of operations data: revenues owned and leased hotels $ 4,233 $ 4,239 $ 4,046 $ 3,979 $ 3,898 management and franchise fees and other 1,601 1,401 1,175 1,088 1,014 timeshare 1,308 1,171 1,109 1,085 944 7,142 6,811 6,330 6,152 5,856 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 4,130 3,691 3,405 3,124 2,927 total revenues 11,272 10,502 9,735 9,276 8,783 expenses owned and leased hotels 3,168 3,252 3,147 3,230 3,213 timeshare 897 767 730 758 668 depreciation and amortization 692 628 603 550 564 impairment losses 9 54 20 general, administrative and other 611 491 748 460 416 5,377 5,138 5,228 5,052 4,881 other expenses from managed and franchised properties 4,130 3,691 3,405 3,124 2,927 total expenses 9,507 8,829 8,633 8,176 7,808 gain on sales of assets, net 306 operating income 2,071 1,673 1,102 1,100 975 net income attributable to hilton stockholders 1,404 673 415 352 253 earnings per share: basic $ 1.42 $ 0.68 $ 0.45 $ 0.38 $ 0.27 diluted $ 1.42 $ 0.68 $ 0.45 $ 0.38 $ 0.27 cash dividends declared per share $ 0.14 $ $ $ $ weighted average shares outstanding: basic 986 985 923 921 921 diluted 989 986 923 921 921 43 december 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) selected balance sheet data: cash and cash equivalents $ 609 $ 566 $ 594 $ 755 $ 781 restricted cash and cash equivalents 247 202 266 550 658 total assets 25,716 26,125 26,562 27,066 27,312 long-term debt (1) 9,821 10,813 11,755 15,575 16,311 non-recourse timeshare debt (1)(2) 506 631 672 non-recourse debt and capital lease obligations of consolidated variable interest entities (1) 220 248 296 420 481 total equity 5,951 4,714 4,276 2,155 1,702 ____________ (1) includes current maturities. (2) includes our current and long-term maturities of our non-recourse timeshare financing receivables credit facility (the "timeshare facility") and our notes backed by timeshare financing receivables (the "securitized timeshare debt"). 44 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. overview our business hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,610 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 758,502 rooms in 100 countries and territories as of december 31, 2015 . our flagship full service hilton hotels &amp; resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. our premier brand portfolio includes our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton, our full service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites by hilton, our focused service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, tru by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton, and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. as of december 31, 2015 , we owned or leased interests in 146 hotels, many of which are located in global gateway cities, including iconic properties such as the hilton new york, hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. we had approximately 51 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton hhonors, as of december 31, 2015 . segments and regions management analyzes our operations and business by both operating segments and geographic regions. our operations consist of three reportable segments that are based on similar products or services: ownership; management and franchise; and timeshare. the ownership segment primarily derives earnings from providing hotel room rentals, food and beverage sales and other services at our owned and leased hotels. the management and franchise segment provides services, which include hotel management and licensing of our brands to franchisees, as well as property management at timeshare properties. this segment generates its revenue from management and franchise fees charged to hotel owners, including our owned and leased hotels, and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. as a manager of hotels and timeshare resorts, we typically are responsible for supervising or operating the property in exchange for management fees. as a franchisor of hotels, we charge franchise fees in exchange for the use of one of our brand names and related commercial services, such as our reservation system, marketing and information technology services. the timeshare segment consists of multi-unit vacation ownership properties and generates revenue by marketing and selling timeshare intervals owned by us and third parties, resort operations and providing consumer financing for the timeshare interests. geographically, management conducts business through three distinct geographic regions: the americas; europe, middle east and africa ("emea"); and asia pacific. the americas region includes north america, south america and central america, including all caribbean nations. although the u.s. is included in the americas, it is often analyzed separately and apart from the americas geographic region and, as such, it is presented separately within the analysis herein. the emea region includes europe, which represents the western-most peninsula of eurasia stretching from ireland in the west to russia in the east, and the middle east and africa ("mea"), which represents the middle east region and all african nations, including the indian ocean island nations. europe and mea are often analyzed separately by management. the asia pacific region includes the eastern and southeastern nations of asia, as well as india, australia, new zealand and the pacific island nations. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 75 percent of our system-wide hotel rooms were located in the u.s. we expect that the percentage of our hotel rooms outside the u.s. will continue to increase in future years as hotels in our pipeline open. system growth and pipeline we continue to expand our global footprint, fee-based business and the capital efficiency of our timeshare business. as we enter into new management and franchise contracts, we expand our business with minimal or no capital investment by us as the manager or franchisor, as the capital required to build and maintain hotels is typically provided by the third-party owner of the respective hotel. additionally, prior to approving the addition of new hotels to our management and franchise development pipeline, we evaluate the economic viability of the hotel based on the geographic location, the credit quality of the third-party owner and other factors. as a result, by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements with third-party owners, we expect to achieve a higher overall return on invested capital. as of december 31, 2015 , we had a total of 1,616 hotels in our development pipeline, representing over 266,000 rooms under construction or approved for development throughout 85 countries and territories, including 31 countries and territories 45 where we do not currently have any open hotels. all of the rooms in the pipeline are within our management and franchise segment. of the rooms in the pipeline, approximately 142,000 rooms, or more than half of the pipeline, were located outside the u.s. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 134,000 rooms, representing over half of our development pipeline, were under construction. we do not consider any individual development project to be material to us. our overall supply of timeshare intervals as of december 31, 2015 was approximately 134,000 intervals, or over six years at current sales pace. additionally, we enter into agreements to sell timeshare units developed by third parties. our supply of third-party developed timeshare intervals was approximately 114,000 , or 85 percent of our total supply, as of december 31, 2015 . recent events in january 2016, we launched our newest brand, tru by hilton, which is a midscale brand. tru by hilton embraces the value-conscious traveler, offering a back-to-basics experience. each property will include lively social spaces in a large, first floor lobby with a work, play and eat zone, all with a unique personality. as of february 16, 2016 , tru by hilton had commitments for 163 properties. the first property is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2016. in february 2016, we announced a plan to separate a substantial portion of our ownership business, consisting primarily of our owned hotels located in the u.s., as well as our timeshare business from hilton worldwide to form two additional new publicly traded companies. see item 1a. risk factors and note 29: "subsequent events" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion. principal components and factors affecting our results of operations revenues principal components we primarily derive our revenues from the following sources: owned and leased hotels. represents revenues derived from hotel operations, including room rentals, food and beverage sales and other ancillary goods and services. these revenues are primarily derived from two categories of customers: transient and group. transient guests are individual travelers who are traveling for business or leisure. our group guests are traveling for group events that reserve rooms for meetings, conferences or social functions sponsored by associations, corporate, social, military, educational, religious or other organizations. group business usually includes a block of room accommodations, as well as other ancillary services, such as meeting facilities and catering and banquet services. a majority of our food and beverage sales and other ancillary services are provided to customers who are also occupying rooms at our hotel properties. as a result, occupancy affects all components of our owned and leased hotel revenues. management and franchise fees and other. represents revenues derived from management fees earned from hotels and timeshare properties managed by us, franchise fees received in connection with the franchising of our brands and other revenue generated by the incidental support of hotel operations for owned, leased, managed and franchised properties and other rental income. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base fee, which is typically a percentage of each hotel's gross revenue, and in some cases an incentive fee, which is based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. management fees from timeshare properties are generally a fixed amount as stated in the management agreement. outside of the u.s., our fees are often more dependent on hotel profitability measures, either through a single management fee structure where the entire fee is based on a profitability measure, or because our two-tier fee structure is more heavily weighted toward the incentive fee than the base fee. additionally, we receive one-time upfront fees upon execution of certain management contracts, as well as a monthly fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. in general, the hotel owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses costs we incur in operating the hotel. under our franchise agreements, franchisees pay us franchise fees which consist of initial application and initiation fees for new hotels entering the system and monthly royalty fees, generally calculated as a percentage of room revenues. royalty fees for our full service brands may also include a percentage of gross food and beverage 46 revenues and other revenues, where applicable. in addition to the franchise application and royalty fees, franchisees also generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the cost of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation system expenses; and quality assurance program costs. we also earn fees when certain franchise agreements are terminated early or there is a change in ownership. timeshare. represents revenues derived from the sale and financing of timeshare intervals and revenues from enrollments and other fees, rentals of timeshare units, food and beverage sales and other ancillary services at our timeshare properties, which we refer to as resort operations. additionally, in recent years, we began a transformation of our timeshare business to a capital light model in which third-party timeshare owners and developers provide capital for development while we act as the sales and marketing agent and property manager. through these transactions, we receive a sales and marketing commission and branding fees based on the total sales price of the timeshare interval, recurring fees to operate the homeowners' associations and revenues from resort operations. other revenues from managed and franchised properties. these revenues represent the payroll and its related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, as well as certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, marketing expenses and other expenses associated with our brands and shared services that are contractually either reimbursed to us by the property owners or paid from fees collected in advance from these properties when the costs are incurred. we have no legal responsibility for employees at franchised properties. the corresponding expenses are presented as other expenses from managed and franchised properties in our consolidated statements of operations resulting in no effect on operating income or net income. factors affecting our revenues the following factors affect the revenues we derive from our operations: consumer demand and global economic conditions . consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence and adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased operations and the amount of management and franchise fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties. further, competition for hotel guests and the supply of hotel services affect our ability to increase rates charged to customers at our hotels. also, declines in hotel profitability during an economic downturn directly affect the incentive portion of our management fees, which is based on hotel profit measures. our timeshare segment also is linked to cycles in the general economy and consumer discretionary spending. as a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles can subject and have subjected our revenues to significant volatility. agreements with third-party owners and franchisees and relationships with developers . we depend on our long-term management and franchise agreements with third-party owners and franchisees for a significant portion of our management and franchise fee revenues. the success and sustainability of our management and franchise business depends on our ability to perform under our management and franchise agreements and maintain good relationships with third-party owners and franchisees. our relationships with these third parties also generate new relationships with developers and opportunities for property development that can support our growth. growth and maintenance of our hotel system and earning fees relating to hotels in the pipeline are dependent on the ability of developers and owners to access capital for the development, maintenance and renovation of properties. we believe that we have good relationships with our third-party owners, franchisees and developers and are committed to the continued growth and development of these relationships. these relationships exist with a diverse group of owners, franchisees and developers and are not significantly concentrated with any particular third party. additionally, in recent years we have entered into sales and marketing agreements to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers. we expect the sales of timeshare intervals developed by third parties and resort operations to comprise a growing percentage of our timeshare revenue, and revenues derived from the sale of timeshare intervals developed by us to comprise a smaller percentage of our timeshare revenue in future periods, consistent with our strategy to focus our business on the management aspects and deploy less of our capital to asset construction. 47 expenses principal components we primarily incur the following expenses: owned and leased hotels. reflects the operating expenses of our consolidated owned and leased hotels, including room expense, food and beverage costs, other support costs and property expenses. room expense includes compensation costs for housekeeping, laundry and front desk staff and supply costs for guest room amenities and laundry. food and beverage costs include costs for wait and kitchen staff and food and beverage products. other support expenses consist of costs associated with property-level management, utilities, sales and marketing, operating hotel spas, telephones, parking and other guest recreation, entertainment and services. property expenses include property taxes, repairs and maintenance, rent and insurance. timeshare . includes the cost of inventory sold during the period, sales and marketing expenses, resort operations expenses and other overhead expenses associated with our timeshare business. depreciation and amortization. these are non-cash expenses that primarily consist of depreciation of fixed assets such as buildings, furniture and equipment at our consolidated owned and leased hotels and certain corporate assets, as well as amortization of our management and franchise intangibles and capitalized software. general, administrative and other expenses. consists primarily of compensation expense for our corporate staff and personnel supporting our business segments (including divisional offices that support our management and franchise segment), professional fees (including consulting, audit and legal fees), travel and entertainment expenses, bad debt expenses for uncollected management, franchise and other fees, contractual performance obligations and office administrative and related expenses. expenses incurred by our supply management business, laundry facilities and other ancillary businesses are also included in general, administrative and other expenses. impairment losses. we hold significant amounts of goodwill, amortizing and non-amortizing intangible assets and long-lived assets. we evaluate these assets for impairment as further discussed in " critical accounting policies and estimates." these evaluations have resulted in impairment losses for certain of these assets based on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding the assets and our estimates of fair value. based on economic conditions or other factors at a property-specific or company-wide level, we may be required to take additional impairment losses to reflect further declines in our asset values. other expenses from managed and franchised properties. these expenses represent the payroll and its related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, as well as certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, marketing expenses and other expenses associated with our brands and shared services that are contractually either reimbursed to us by the property owners or paid from fees collected in advance from these properties when the costs are incurred. we have no legal responsibility for the employees at our franchised properties. the corresponding revenues are presented as other revenues from managed and franchised properties in our consolidated statements of operations resulting in no effect on operating income or net income. 48 factors affecting our costs and expenses the following are principal factors that affect the costs and expenses we incur in the course of our operations: fixed expenses. many of the expenses associated with managing, franchising and owning hotels and timeshare resorts are relatively fixed. these expenses include personnel costs, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities. if we are unable to decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels and other properties decreases, the resulting decline in our revenues can have an adverse effect on our net cash flow, margins and profits. this effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth. economic downturns generally affect the results of our owned and leased hotel segment more significantly than the results of our management and franchising segments due to the high fixed costs associated with operating an owned or leased hotel. the effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts is limited by the fixed costs inherent in our business. as a result, we may not be able to offset revenue reductions through cost cutting. employees at some of our owned and leased hotels are parties to collective bargaining agreements that may also limit our ability to make timely staffing or labor changes in response to declining revenues. in addition, any efforts to reduce costs, or to defer or cancel capital improvements, could adversely affect the economic value of our hotels and brands. we have taken steps to reduce our fixed costs to levels we feel are appropriate to maximize profitability and respond to market conditions without jeopardizing the overall customer experience or the value of our hotels or brands. also, a significant portion of our costs to support our timeshare business relates to direct sales and marketing of these units. in periods of decreased demand for timeshare intervals, we may be unable to reduce our sales and marketing expenses quickly enough to prevent a deterioration of our profit margins on our timeshare business. changes in depreciation and amortization expense. changes in depreciation expense may be driven by renovations of existing hotels, acquisition or development of new hotels, the disposition of existing hotels through sale or closure or changes in estimates of the useful lives of our assets. as we place new assets into service, we will be required to record additional depreciation expense on those assets. additionally, we capitalize costs associated with certain software development projects, and as those projects are completed and placed into service, amortization expense will increase. other items effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations significant portions of our operations are conducted in functional currencies other than our reporting currency, which is the united states ("u.s.") dollar ("usd"), and we have assets and liabilities denominated in a variety of foreign currencies. as a result, we are required to translate those results, assets and liabilities from the functional currency into usd at market based exchange rates for each reporting period. when comparing our results of operations between periods, there may be material portions of the changes in our revenues or expenses that are derived from fluctuations in exchange rates experienced between those periods. seasonality the lodging industry is seasonal in nature. however, the periods during which our hotels experience higher or lower levels of demand vary from property to property and depend upon location, type of property and competitive mix within the specific location. based on historical results, we generally expect our revenue to be lower during the first calendar quarter of each year than during each of the three subsequent quarters. 49 key business and financial metrics used by management comparable hotels we define our comparable hotels as those that: (i) were active and operating in our system for at least one full calendar year as of the end of the current period, and open january 1st of the previous year; (ii) have not undergone a change in brand or ownership type during the current or comparable periods reported; and (iii) have not sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, undergone large-scale capital projects or for which comparable results are not available. of the 4,565 hotels in our system as of december 31, 2015 , 3,624 have been classified as comparable hotels. our 941 non-comparable hotels included 137 properties, or approximately three percent of the total hotels in our system, that were removed from the comparable group during the last year because they sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, underwent large-scale capital projects or comparable results were not available. of the 4,278 hotels in our system as of december 31, 2014 , 3,514 were classified as comparable hotels for the year ended december 31, 2014 . occupancy occupancy represents the total number of room nights sold divided by the total number of room nights available at a hotel or group of hotels. occupancy measures the utilization of our hotels' available capacity. management uses occupancy to gauge demand at a specific hotel or group of hotels in a given period. occupancy levels also help us determine achievable adr levels as demand for hotel rooms increases or decreases. average daily rate adr represents hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period. adr measures average room price attained by a hotel and adr trends provide useful information concerning the pricing environment and the nature of the customer base of a hotel or group of hotels. adr is a commonly used performance measure in the industry, and we use adr to assess pricing levels that we are able to generate by type of customer, as changes in rates have a different effect on overall revenues and incremental profitability than changes in occupancy, as described above. revenue per available room we calculate revpar by dividing hotel room revenue by total number of room nights available to guests for a given period. we consider revpar to be a meaningful indicator of our performance as it provides a metric correlated to two primary and key drivers of operations at a hotel or group of hotels: occupancy and adr. revpar is also a useful indicator in measuring performance over comparable periods for comparable hotels. references to revpar, adr and occupancy are presented on a comparable basis and references to revpar and adr are presented on a currency neutral basis (all periods use the same exchange rates), unless otherwise noted. ebitda and adjusted ebitda ebitda, presented herein, is a financial measure that is not recognized under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap") that reflects net income attributable to hilton stockholders, excluding interest expense, a provision for income taxes and depreciation and amortization. we consider ebitda to be a useful measure of operating performance, due to the significance of our long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. adjusted ebitda, presented herein, is calculated as ebitda, as previously defined, further adjusted to exclude certain items, including, but not limited to, gains, losses and expenses in connection with: (i) asset dispositions for both consolidated and unconsolidated investments; (ii) foreign currency transactions; (iii) debt restructurings/retirements; (iv) non-cash impairment losses; (v) furniture, fixtures and equipment ("ff&amp;e") replacement reserves required under certain lease agreements; (vi) reorganization costs; (vii) share-based and certain other compensation expenses; (viii) severance, relocation and other expenses; and (ix) other items. to align with management's view of allocating resources and assessing the performance of our segments and to facilitate comparisons with our competitors, beginning in the first quarter of 2015, adjusted ebitda excluded all share-based compensation expense, not just share-based compensation expense recognized in connection with equity issued prior to and in connection with our initial public offering. we have applied this change in the definition to historical results presented to allow for comparability. 50 ebitda and adjusted ebitda are not recognized terms under u.s. gaap and should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or other measures of financial performance or liquidity derived in accordance with u.s. gaap. in addition, our definitions of ebitda and adjusted ebitda may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. we believe that ebitda and adjusted ebitda provide useful information to investors about us and our financial condition and results of operations for the following reasons: (i) ebitda and adjusted ebitda are among the measures used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance and make day-to-day operating decisions; and (ii) ebitda and adjusted ebitda are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties as a common performance measure to compare results or estimate valuations across companies in our industry. ebitda and adjusted ebitda have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for net income (loss), cash flow or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under u.s. gaap. some of these limitations are: ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect our interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our indebtedness; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect our tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect the effect on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and other companies in our industry may calculate ebitda and adjusted ebitda differently, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures. because of these limitations, ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as discretionary cash available to us to reinvest in the growth of our business or as measures of cash that will be available to us to meet our obligations. results of operations year ended december 31, 2015 compared with year ended december 31, 2014 the hotel operating statistics for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2015 2015 vs. 2014 owned and leased hotels occupancy 79.1 % 1.3 % pts. adr $ 184.78 2.5 % revpar $ 146.19 4.2 % managed and franchised hotels occupancy 75.1 % 1.3 % pts. adr $ 136.60 3.6 % revpar $ 102.61 5.5 % system-wide occupancy 75.4 % 1.3 % pts. adr $ 141.19 3.6 % revpar $ 106.51 5.4 % 51 the hotel operating statistics by region for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2015 2015 vs. 2014 u.s. occupancy 76.2 % 1.0 % pts. adr $ 140.31 3.8 % revpar $ 106.89 5.2 % americas (excluding u.s.) occupancy 73.1 % 1.2 % pts. adr $ 126.14 4.8 % revpar $ 92.18 6.7 % europe occupancy 77.0 % 1.7 % pts. adr $ 154.81 3.7 % revpar $ 119.24 6.1 % middle east and africa occupancy 66.0 % 2.3 % pts. adr $ 153.91 (1.9 )% revpar $ 101.53 1.7 % asia pacific occupancy 68.8 % 5.0 % pts. adr $ 140.82 1.3 % revpar $ 96.85 9.3 % all world regions experienced revpar growth in 2015 with nearly all growing in occupancy and adr. asia pacific revpar growth led all regions at 9.3 percent, primarily through occupancy, which is a result of our portfolio ramping up in china. the middle east and africa region continues to face geopolitical unrest and low oil prices, nonetheless revpar still increased as a result of improved year over year demand. u.s. revpar growth of 5.2 percent was primarily driven by adr with demand outpacing supply growth, which is still below the long-term industry average. revenues owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 2,414 $ 2,227 8.4 international owned and leased hotels 1,819 2,012 (9.6) $ 4,233 $ 4,239 (0.1) 52 the following details the changes in revenues at our owned and leased hotels: u.s. international (in millions) increase (decrease) year over year $ 187 $ (193 ) foreign currency effect (1) 214 net decrease (increase) of acquired and disposed hotels (2) (81 ) 80 increase excluding the effect of foreign currency, acquisitions and disposals $ 106 $ 101 ____________ (1) unfavorable movements were a result of the strengthening of the usd compared to that of currencies primarily in the europe and asia pacific regions, where the majority of our owned and leased hotels outside of the u.s. are located. (2) from january 1, 2014 to december 31, 2015, 10 hotels were added to our u.s. owned and leased portfolio on a net basis, and five hotels were removed from our international owned and leased portfolio on a net basis. as of december 31, 2015 , we had 45 consolidated owned and leased hotels located in the u.s., comprising 27,072 rooms. the increase in revenues at our u.s. owned and leased hotels was primarily due to an increase in revenues at our comparable hotels of $107 million as a result of an increase in revpar of 4.2 percent during the year ended december 31, 2015 , which was primarily attributable to increases in both transient and group business. as of december 31, 2015 , we had 84 consolidated owned and leased hotels located outside of the u.s., comprising 24,205 rooms. revenues increased $52 million, on a currency neutral basis, at our comparable international owned and leased hotels as a result of an increase in revpar of 4.2 percent during the year ended december 31, 2015 , which was primarily a result of an increase in transient guest business. additionally, there was an increase in revenues at our non-comparable international owned and leased hotels of $49 million during the year ended december 31, 2015 , primarily as a result of the completion of large renovation projects at certain hotels, which had previously limited the availability of those properties to guests. management and franchise fees and other year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) management fees $ 395 $ 384 2.9 franchise fees 1,122 927 21.0 other 84 90 (6.7) $ 1,601 $ 1,401 14.3 on a currency neutral basis, our management fees and franchise fees increased $27 million (7.4 percent) and $207 million (22.6 percent), respectively. these increases were a result of increased revpar of 6.3 percent and 5.2 percent at our comparable hotels, respectively, which resulted from increases in both occupancy and adr. the increase in management fees and franchise fees was also a result of the addition of new managed and franchised properties to our portfolio, which are not included in our comparable hotels and contributed $11 million and $50 million, respectively, of increased fees on a currency neutral basis. franchise fees also increased as a result of increased currency neutral licensing and other fees of $104 million. from december 31, 2014 to december 31, 2015 , we added 285 managed and franchised properties on a net basis, including new development and ownership type transfers, providing an additional 42,573 rooms to our system. as new hotels are established in our system, we expect the fees received from such hotels to increase as they are part of our system for full reporting periods. other revenues decreased primarily as a result of the decrease in revenues earned by our purchasing operations. 53 timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 959 $ 844 13.6 resort operations 207 195 6.2 financing and other 142 132 7.6 $ 1,308 $ 1,171 11.7 timeshare sales revenue increased $115 million during the year ended december 31, 2015 as a result of an increase in commissions recognized from the sale of third-party developed intervals of $136 million , offset by a decrease of $21 million in revenues related to the sale of timeshare intervals owned by us. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , we had higher sales volume on third-party developed timeshare intervals. operating expenses owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 1,589 $ 1,497 6.1 international owned and leased hotels 1,579 1,755 (10.0) $ 3,168 $ 3,252 (2.6) the following details the changes in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels: u.s. international (in millions) increase (decrease) year over year $ 92 $ (176 ) foreign currency effect (1) 186 net decrease (increase) of acquired and disposed hotels (2) (17 ) 60 increase excluding the effect of foreign currency, acquisitions and disposals $ 75 $ 70 ____________ (1) favorable movements were a result of the strengthening of the usd compared to that of currencies primarily in the europe and asia pacific regions, where the majority of our owned and leased hotels outside of the u.s. are located. (2) from january 1, 2014 to december 31, 2015, 10 hotels were added to our u.s. owned and leased portfolio on a net basis and five hotels were removed from our international owned and leased portfolio on a net basis. fluctuations in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels can relate to various factors, including changes in occupancy levels, labor costs, utilities, taxes and insurance costs. the change in the number of occupied room nights directly affects certain variable expenses, which include payroll, supplies and other operating expenses. the increase in operating expenses at our u.s. owned and leased hotels was primarily due to an increase at our comparable hotels of $74 million, primarily resulting from higher variable operating costs due to increased occupancy. operating expenses increased $45 million, on a currency neutral basis, at our international comparable owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2015 , primarily as a result of increases in variable operating costs resulting from increased occupancy consistent with improved operations at certain leased hotels. additionally, there were increases in operating expenses at our non-comparable international owned and leased hotels of $25 million during the year ended december 31, 2015 , primarily as a result of higher operating expenses at certain hotels where large renovation projects were completed during 2014 and 2015, which is consistent with the $49 million increase in revenues for these hotels. 54 timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 701 $ 586 19.6 resort operations 130 123 5.7 financing and other 66 58 13.8 $ 897 $ 767 16.9 timeshare sales expense increased during the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily as a result of an increase of $57 million in the cost of sales of our inventory mainly related to the increase in costs to reacquire inventory developed by us resulting from upgrades into third-party developed properties for which we earn commissions. additionally, there were higher sales and marketing expenses as a result of the increase in sales volume, which was primarily attributable to the sale of third-party developed timeshare intervals. depreciation and amortization year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) depreciation $ 351 $ 313 12.1 amortization 341 315 8.3 $ 692 $ 628 10.2 the increase in depreciation expense resulted from assets acquired or placed into service from our owned and leased hotels, net of the effect of asset disposals. the increase in amortization expense was primarily as a result of $13 million in accelerated amortization of a management contract intangible asset related to properties that were managed by us prior to our acquisition of those hotels. the remaining increase was primarily a result of capitalized software costs placed into service during and after 2014. general, administrative and other year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) general and administrative $ 547 $ 416 31.5 other 64 75 (14.7) $ 611 $ 491 24.4 the increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily a result of severance costs related to the sale of the waldorf astoria new york of approximately $95 million. the increase in general and administrative expenses was also a result of the increase in share-based compensation expense under our pre-ipo executive compensation plan (the "promote plan") of $34 million, primarily due to the recognition of $64 million of expense when all remaining awards vested in may 2015. additionally, the increase was a result of the reversal of accruals in 2014 related to the termination of a cash-based, long-term incentive plan that was replaced with our 2013 omnibus incentive plan, resulting in an $18 million reduction in general and administrative expense during the year ended december 31, 2014. the decrease in other expenses primarily represented decreased expenses incurred by our purchasing operations, which were in line with the decrease in revenues from these purchasing operations. 55 gain on sales of assets, net year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) gain on sales of assets, net $ 306 $ nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we completed the sales of the hilton sydney and the waldorf astoria new york. see note 4: "disposals" in our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. non-operating income and expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) interest expense $ 575 $ 618 (7.0) the decrease in interest expense was primarily as a result of a decrease in our indebtedness due to the debt prepayments of $775 million on our term loan facility (the "term loans") during the year, which resulted in lower 2015 debt principal balances on which interest expense was calculated. year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 23 $ 19 21.1 the increase in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates was primarily due to improved performance at our unconsolidated hotels, partially offset by $3 million in equity in earnings included in the year ended december 31, 2014 from unconsolidated affiliates that were involved in an equity investments exchange or sold during that year; see note 3 : " acquisitions " in our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions $ (41 ) $ 26 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. th e net loss on forei gn currency transactions for the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily related to changes in foreign currency rates on our short-term cross-currency intercompany loans, predominantly those denominated in australian dollar ("aud"), brazilian real and british pound ("gbp"). the net gain on foreign currency transactions for the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily a result of changes in foreign currency rates on our short-term cross-currency intercompany loans, predominantly those denominated in gbp and aud. 56 year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) other gain (loss), net $ (1 ) $ 37 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the other loss, net for the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily related to $26 million of transaction costs from the acquisition of properties in connection with the tax deferred exchange, partially offset by a $24 million gain from the capital lease liability reduction from one of our consolidated variable interest entities ("vies"). the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily related to a pre-tax gain of $23 million resulting from an equity investments exchange; see note 3: "acquisitions" in our consolidated financial statements, as well as pre-tax gains of $13 million resulting from the sale of two hotels and a vacant parcel of land. year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) income tax expense $ 80 $ 465 (82.8) the decrease in income tax expense was primarily the result of a $640 million deferred tax benefit resulting from transactions involving the conversion of certain u.s. subsidiaries from corporations to limited liability companies and the election to disregard certain foreign subsidiaries for u.s. federal income tax purposes. this benefit was offset by an increase in tax expense resulting from a $349 million increase in our income before income taxes. further, income tax expense was affected by the reduction in goodwill in connection with the sales of the waldorf astoria new york and the hilton sydney, as well as the compensation costs incurred under the promote plan for which no tax benefits were recognized . refer to note 18 : " income taxes " in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. segment results we evaluate our business segment operating performance using segment adjusted ebitda, as described in note 23 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. refer to those financial statements for a reconciliation of net income attributable to hilton stockholders to adjusted ebitda. for a discussion of our definition of ebitda and adjusted ebitda, how management uses it to manage our business and material limitations on its usefulness, refer to " key business and financial metrics used by management." the following table sets forth revenues and adjusted ebitda by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts: year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) revenues: ownership $ 4,262 $ 4,271 (0.2) management and franchise 1,691 1,468 15.2 timeshare 1,308 1,171 11.7 segment revenues 7,261 6,910 5.1 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 4,130 3,691 11.9 other revenues 91 99 (8.1) intersegment fees elimination (210 ) (198 ) 6.1 total revenues $ 11,272 $ 10,502 7.3 adjusted ebitda: ownership $ 1,064 $ 1,000 6.4 management and franchise 1,691 1,468 15.2 timeshare 352 337 4.5 corporate and other (228 ) (255 ) (10.6) adjusted ebitda $ 2,879 $ 2,550 12.9 ____________ (1) refer to note 23 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements for details on the intersegment fees elimination. ownership ownership segment revenues decreased $9 million primarily as a result of the decrease in owned and leased hotel revenues. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2015 compared with year ended december 31, 2014 revenues owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the decrease in revenues from our owned and leased hotels. our ownership segment's adjusted ebitda increased $64 million primarily as a result of the decrease in owned and leased operating expenses of $84 million offset by the decrease in ownership segment revenues. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2015 compared with year ended december 31, 2014 operating expenses owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the decrease in operating expenses. 57 management and franchise management and franchise segment revenues increased $223 million as a result of the increase in revpar at our comparable managed and franchised properties of 5.5 percent , an increase in licensing and other fees, as well as the net addition of hotels to our managed and franchised system. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2015 compared with year ended december 31, 2014 revenues management and franchise fees and other" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our managed and franchised properties. our management and franchise segment's adjusted ebitda increased as a result of the increase in management and franchise segment revenues. timeshare timeshare adjusted ebitda increased $15 million primarily as a result of the $137 million increase in timeshare revenue, offset by a $130 million increase in timeshare operating expense. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2015 compared with year ended december 31, 2014 revenues timeshare" and " results of operations year ended december 31, 2015 compared with year ended december 31, 2014 operating expenses timeshare" for a discussion of the changes in revenues and operating expenses from our timeshare segment. year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 the hotel operating statistics for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2014 2014 vs. 2013 owned and leased hotels occupancy 78.4 % 2.0 % pts. adr $ 199.24 2.9 % revpar $ 156.18 5.6 % managed and franchised hotels occupancy 74.3 % 2.4 % pts. adr $ 135.20 3.9 % revpar $ 100.45 7.3 % system-wide occupancy 74.6 % 2.4 % pts. adr $ 141.52 3.7 % revpar $ 105.63 7.1 % 58 the hotel operating statistics by region for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2014 2014 vs. 2013 united states occupancy 75.4 % 2.3 % pts. adr $ 137.18 4.1 % revpar $ 103.44 7.4 % americas (excluding u.s.) occupancy 72.2 % 2.1 % pts. adr $ 136.24 4.7 % revpar $ 98.30 7.9 % europe occupancy 75.4 % 2.6 % pts. adr $ 170.68 2.4 % revpar $ 128.65 6.1 % middle east and africa occupancy 63.5 % 3.5 % pts. adr $ 165.15 (1.3 )% revpar $ 104.93 4.4 % asia pacific occupancy 69.2 % 2.3 % pts. adr $ 160.59 1.4 % revpar $ 111.15 4.9 % during the year ended december 31, 2014, we experienced revpar increases in all segments and regions of our business, with occupancy and rate increases in all regions except middle east and africa, where rates declined and market demand increased over 2013. revenues owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 2,227 $ 2,058 8.2 international owned and leased hotels 2,012 1,988 1.2 $ 4,239 $ 4,046 4.8 during the year ended december 31, 2014, the overall improved performance at our owned and leased hotels was primarily a result of improvement in revpar of 5.6 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. as of december 31, 2014, we had 40 consolidated owned and leased hotels located in the u.s., comprising 25,276 rooms. the increase in revenues from our u.s. owned and leased hotels was primarily a result of an increase in revpar at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels of 6.9 percent, which was due to increases in occupancy and adr of 1.7 percentage points and 4.6 percent, respectively. the increase in revpar at our u.s. comparable owned and leased hotels was attributable to increases in both transient guests and group business. in addition, food and beverage revenues increased 7.0 percent, primarily as a result of increased spending by group customers. as of december 31, 2014, we had 87 consolidated owned and leased hotels located outside of the u.s., comprising 25,280 rooms. the increase in revenues from our international (non-u.s.) owned and leased hotels included an unfavorable movement in foreign currency rates of $17 million; on a currency neutral basis, revenue increased $41 million. the increase in currency neutral revenue resulted from an increase in revpar at our international comparable owned and leased hotels of 3.2 percent, which was primarily a result of increased occupancy of 2.1 percentage points. management and franchise fees and other year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) management fees $ 384 $ 343 12.0 franchise fees 927 772 20.1 other 90 60 50.0 $ 1,401 $ 1,175 19.2 the increases in our management fees and franchise fees were a result of increased revpar of 7.0 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively, during the year ended december 31, 2014. the increases in revpar for managed and franchised hotels were a result of increases in both occupancy and adr. the addition of new hotels to our managed and franchised system also contributed to the growth in revenue. during 2014, we added 29 managed properties on a net basis, contributing an additional 9,142 rooms to our system, as well as 188 franchised properties on a net basis, providing an additional 28,636 rooms to our system. as new hotels are established in our system, we expect the fees received from such hotels to increase as they are part of our system for full periods. the increase in other revenues was primarily a result of the increase in revenues earned by our purchasing operations. 59 timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 844 $ 821 2.8 resort operations 195 158 23.4 financing and other 132 130 1.5 $ 1,171 $ 1,109 5.6 timeshare sales revenue increased $23 million as a result of increases in commissions recognized from the sale of third-party developed intervals of approximately $47 million, partially offset by a decrease of approximately $24 million in revenue from the sale of timeshare intervals developed by us, primarily resulting from the deferral of revenue recognition due to sales of developed projects that are partially complete. we expect the decline in sales of our owned timeshare inventory to continue as we further develop our capital light timeshare business with a focus on selling timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers. resort operations revenue increased approximately $37 million resulting from increased transient rentals. operating expenses owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 1,497 $ 1,410 6.2 international owned and leased hotels 1,755 1,737 1.0 $ 3,252 $ 3,147 3.3 the increase in u.s. owned and leased hotels operating expenses was primarily a result of increases in payroll costs and other variable costs resulting from increased occupancy. the increase in international owned and leased hotels operating expenses included a favorable movement in foreign currency rates of $9 million; on a currency neutral basis, operating expenses increased $27 million. the increase resulted from the opening of a new property in 2014, which had operating expenses of $13 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the increase in currency neutral expenses was also a result of a benefit of $11 million recognized as a reduction in rent expense during the year ended december 31, 2013 relating to a termination payment received for one of our properties with a ground lease. timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 586 $ 554 5.8 resort operations 123 119 3.4 financing and other 58 57 1.8 $ 767 $ 730 5.1 timeshare sales expense increased $32 million primarily as a result of increased sales and marketing expenses, most significantly related to our increased sales volume. 60 depreciation and amortization year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) depreciation $ 313 $ 318 (1.6) amortization 315 285 10.5 $ 628 $ 603 4.1 the $30 million increase in amortization expense was primarily a result of capitalized software costs placed into service during and after 2013. depreciation expense decreased $5 million in 2014, primarily as a result of $10 million in accelerated depreciation recognized in 2013 resulting from a lease termination at one of our properties, offset by additional depreciation expense from our owned and leased hotels resulting from assets placed in service during and after 2013. general, administrative and other year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) general and administrative $ 416 $ 697 (40.3) other 75 51 47.1 $ 491 $ 748 (34.4) general and administrative expenses for the year ended december 31, 2014 decreased as a result of a $281 million decrease in share-based compensation expense issued prior to and in connection with our initial public offering ("ipo"). we incurred $306 million of share-based compensation expense related to the promote plan concurrent with our ipo during the fourth quarter of 2013. the increase of $24 million in other expenses was primarily from our purchasing operations, which is consistent with the increase in revenues from our purchasing operations. non-operating income and expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) interest expense $ 618 $ 620 (0.3) interest expense remained relatively unchanged from 2013. our overall borrowing rate increased based on a series of transactions related to a debt refinancing occurring in october 2013; however, we reduced our outstanding borrowings during 2014. additionally, interest expense included the accelerated amortization of $13 million and $23 million of debt issuance costs and original issue discount related to voluntary prepayments on the term loans during the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 19 $ 16 18.8 the increase in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates were primarily a result of improved performance of our unconsolidated affiliates. 61 year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions $ 26 $ (45 ) nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the net gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions was primarily a result of changes in foreign currency rates on our short-term cross-currency intercompany loans, which are primarily denominated in gbp and aud. both gbp and aud weakened against the usd during the year ended december 31, 2014, resulting in a gain on foreign currency transactions. further, in 2014 we designated certain gbp denominated intercompany loan receivables as long-term, limiting our exposure to changes in the gbp currency rate. this resulted in $81 million in losses included in other comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended december 31, 2014 that would have otherwise been included in gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) gain on debt extinguishment $ $ 229 nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the gain on debt extinguishment was the result of a debt refinancing that occurred in 2013. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) other gain, net $ 37 $ 7 nm (1) the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily related to a pre-tax gain of $23 million resulting from an equity investments exchange; see note 3 : " acquisitions " in our consolidated financial statements, as well as pre-tax gains of $13 million resulting from the sale of two hotels and a vacant parcel of land. the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2013 was primarily related to a capital lease restructuring by one of our consolidated vies during the period. the revised terms reduced the future minimum lease payments, resulting in a reduction of the capital lease obligation and a residual amount, which was recorded in other gain, net. year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) income tax expense $ 465 $ 238 95.4 the increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of an increase in u.s. federal and state taxes as a result of higher taxable income. additionally, during the year ended december 31, 2013, we released valuation allowances against certain foreign and state deferred tax assets, which provided a tax benefit of $121 million. refer to note 18 : " income taxes " in our consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of our tax provision at the u.s. statutory rate to our provision for income taxes. 62 segment results the following table sets forth revenues and adjusted ebitda by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts: year ended december 31, percent change 2014 2013 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) revenues: ownership $ 4,271 $ 4,075 4.8 management and franchise 1,468 1,271 15.5 timeshare 1,171 1,109 5.6 segment revenues 6,910 6,455 7.0 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 3,691 3,405 8.4 other revenues 99 69 43.5 intersegment fees elimination (198 ) (194 ) 2.1 total revenues $ 10,502 $ 9,735 7.9 adjusted ebitda: ownership $ 1,000 $ 926 8.0 management and franchise 1,468 1,271 15.5 timeshare 337 297 13.5 corporate and other (255 ) (284 ) (10.2) adjusted ebitda $ 2,550 $ 2,210 15.4 ownership ownership segment revenues increased $196 million as a result of an improvement in revpar of 5.6 percent at our comparable owned and leased hotels. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 revenues owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our owned and leased hotels. our ownership segment's adjusted ebitda increased $73 million primarily as a result of the increase in ownership segment revenues, offset by an increase in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels of $105 million. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 operating expenses owned and leased hotels" for further discussion on the increase in operating expenses. management and franchise refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 revenues management and franchise fees and other" for further discussion on the increase in revenues from our managed and franchised properties. our management and franchise segment's adjusted ebitda increased as a result of the increase in management and franchise segment revenues. timeshare refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 revenues timeshare" for a discussion of the increase in revenues from our timeshare segment. our timeshare segment's adjusted ebitda increased $37 million primarily as a result of the $62 million increase in timeshare revenue, offset by a $37 million increase in timeshare operating expense. refer to " results of operations year ended december 31, 2014 compared with year ended december 31, 2013 operating expenses timeshare" for a discussion of the decrease in operating expenses from our timeshare segment. supplemental financial data for unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries as of december 31, 2015 , we owned majority or controlling financial interests in 56 hotels, representing 29,269 rooms. see "part i item 2. properties" for more i nformation on each of our owned hotels. of these owned hotels, 36 hotels representing an aggregate of 23,913 rooms a of december 31, 2015 , were owned by subsidiaries that we collectively refer to as our "unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries." the properties held by our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries secure e ither a $3,418 million commercial mortgage-backed securities loan secured by 22 u.s. owned real estate assets (the "cmbs loan") or one of our mortgage loans secured by four other properties that total in aggrega te $492 million and are not 63 included in the collateral securing our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility (the "senior secured credit facility") and the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries do not guarantee obligations under our senior secured credit facility or our $1.5 billion of 5.625% senior notes due 2021 (the "senior notes"). in addition, the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries are not subject to any of the restrictive covenants in the indenture that governs our senior notes. for further discussion, see " liquidity and capital resources" and note 12 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. we have included this supplemental financial data to comply with certain financial information requirements regarding our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries set forth in the indenture that governs our senior notes. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , the unrestricted u.s. real estate ubsidiaries represented 19.9 percent of our total revenues, 15.8 percent of net income attributable to hilton stockholders and 24.4 percent of our adjusted ebitda, and as of december 31, 2015 , represented 34.8 percent of our total assets and 33.8 percent of our total li abilities. the following tables present supplemental unaudited financial data, as required by the indenture, for our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) revenues $ 2,239 $ 2,060 $ 1,915 net income attributable to hilton stockholders 222 157 185 capital expenditures for property and equipment 203 152 136 adjusted ebitda (1) 702 621 567 cash provided by (used in): operating activities 415 438 366 investing activities 251 (149 ) (164 ) financing activities (644 ) (307 ) (185 ) ____________ (1) the following table provides a reconciliation of our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries' net income attributable to hilton stockholders, which we believe is the most closely comparable u.s. gaap measure, to ebitda and to adjusted ebitda. year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) net income attributable to hilton stockholders $ 222 $ 157 $ 185 interest expense 174 173 35 income tax expense 168 110 132 depreciation and amortization 244 202 202 ebitda 808 642 554 net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 2 (1 ) gain on sales of assets, net (143 ) share-based compensation expense 2 other loss (gain), net 32 (23 ) other adjustment items 1 3 13 adjusted ebitda $ 702 $ 621 $ 567 december 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) assets $ 8,943 $ 8,803 liabilities 6,689 6,774 liquidity and capital resources overview as of december 31, 2015 , we had total cash and cash equivalents of $856 million , including $247 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. the majority of our restricted cash and cash equivalents balance relates to cash collateral on our self-insurance programs, escrowed cash from our timeshare operations and cash restricted under our debt agreements. 64 our known short-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for operating expenses and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, legal costs, operating costs associated with the management of hotels, interest and scheduled principal payments on our outstanding indebtedness, contract acquisition costs and capital expenditures for renovations and maintenance at our owned and leased hotels. our long-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for scheduled debt maturities, capital improvements at our owned and leased hotels, purchase commitments, dividends as declared, costs associated with potential acquisitions and corporate capital expenditures. we finance our business activities primarily with existing cash and cash generated from our operations. we believe that this cash will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for operating expenses and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, legal costs and purchase commitments for the foreseeable future. the objectives of our cash management policy are to maintain the availability of liquidity, minimize operational costs and use available cash to pay down our outstanding debt. further, we have an investment policy that is focused on the preservation of capital and maximizing the return on new and existing investments across all three of our business segments. we and our affiliates, and/or our major stockholders and their respective affiliates, may from time to time purchase our outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. purchases or retirement of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. the amounts involved may be material. recent events affecting our liquidity and capital resources during the year ended december 31, 2015 , we made prepayments of $775 million on our term loans, including a contractually required prepayment using the net proceeds from the sale of the hilton sydney. in february 2015, we completed the sale of the waldorf astoria new york hotel and repaid in full the $525 million waldorf astoria loan and upon acquisition of the waldorf astoria orlando and the hilton orlando bonnet creek (the "bonnet creek resort"), assumed a $450 million mortgage loan secured by the bonnet creek resort (the "bonnet creek loan"), resulting in a net reduction of $75 million in mortgage debt. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , we made a contractually required prepayment of $69 million on the variable rate component of the cmbs loan in exchange for the release of certain collateral. in december 2015, we paid in full the $64 million mortgage loan assumed as part of an equity investments exchange that occurred in 2014. in july 2015, we commenced paying quarterly dividends. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , we paid $138 million in connection with two quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share. in february 2016, we declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share on shares of our common stock to be paid on or before march 31, 2016 to stockholders of record of our common stock as of the close of business on march 18, 2016. sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents the following table summarizes our net cash flows and key metrics related to our liquidity: as of and for the year ended december 31, percent change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in millions) net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,394 $ 1,366 $ 2,101 2.1 (35.0) net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 392 (310 ) (382 ) nm (1) (18.9) net cash used in financing activities (1,724 ) (1,070 ) (1,863 ) 61.1 (42.6) working capital surplus (2) 118 242 241 (51.2) 0.4 ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. (2) total current assets less total current liabilities. our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 1.05 as of december 31, 2015 and 1.11 as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 . 65 operating activities cash flow from operating activities is primarily generated from management and franchise revenues, operating income from our owned and leased properties and sales of timeshare intervals. in a recessionary market, we may experience significant declines in travel and, thus, declines in demand for our hotel and resort rooms and timeshare intervals. a decline in demand could have a material effect on our cash flow from operating activities. the $28 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily as a result of improved operating results in each of our three business segments, as well as a decrease in cash paid for interest of $29 million, offset by an increase in net cash paid for income taxes of $46 million. the $735 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 , was attributable to an increase in cash paid for taxes of $196 million during the year ended december 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 , due to higher taxable income in 2014, as well as a decrease in deferred revenues as of december 31, 2014. in 2013, we collected $650 million from the sales of hilton hhonors points, most of which was deferred revenue as of december 31, 2013. these were offset by a decrease in cash paid for interest of $21 million in 2014 compared to 2013 and other favorable timing differences in cash generated from operating activities. investing activities the $702 million increase in net cash provided by investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily attributable to net proceeds from the sales of the waldorf astoria new york and hilton sydney of $1,866 million and $331 million, respectively, offset by $1,410 million in proceeds used in the acquisitions of the properties in the tax deferred exchange during the year ended december 31, 2015 . refer to note 3 : " acquisitions " and note 4 : " disposals " in our consolidated financial statements. the $72 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 , was primarily attributable to $44 million in proceeds from asset dispositions in the year ended december 31, 2014, related to the sale of two hotels, a land parcel and land and easement rights. additionally, there were no acquisitions in 2014, while during the year ended december 31, 2013, there were acquisitions of $30 million for a parcel of land and a hotel. our capital expenditures for property and equipment primarily included expenditures related to the renovation of existing owned and leased properties and our corporate facilities. our software capitalization costs related to various systems initiatives for the benefit of our hotel owners and our overall corporate operations. financing activities the $654 million increase in net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily attributable to a decrease in proceeds from borrowings of $302 million, an increase of repayments of debt of $200 million and the payment of cash dividends totaling $138 million in 2015. the changes in borrowings and repayments of debt were primarily due to the repayment of the waldorf astoria loan of $525 million in connection with the sale of the waldorf astoria new york, as well as $775 million of prepayments on our term loans, including a $350 million prepayment using the net proceeds from the sale of the hilton sydney, during the year ended december 31, 2015 . comparatively, during the year ended december 31, 2014 , we issued $350 million of securitized timeshare debt, of which $300 million of proceeds was used to reduce our outstanding balance on the timeshare facility, combined with prepayments on our term loans of $1.0 billion. net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2014 decreased $793 million compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 due to a decrease in net repayments of debt of $2,041 million. the higher net repayments of debt in 2013 was primarily due to a debt refinancing. additionally, in december 2013 we received $1,243 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock from our ipo. 66 debt and borrowing capacity as of december 31, 2015 , our total indebtedness, excluding $229 million of our share of debt of our investments in affiliates, was approximately $10.5 billion, including $726 million of non-recourse debt. for further information on our total indebtedness and debt repayments refer to note 12 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. the obligations of the senior secured credit facility are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by us and all of our direct or indirect wholly owned material domestic subsidiaries, excluding our subsidiaries that are prohibited from providing guarantees as a result of the agreements governing our timeshare facility and/or our securitized timeshare debt and our subsidiaries that secure our cmbs loan and other mortgage loans. additionally, none of our foreign subsidiaries or our non-wholly owned domestic subsidiaries guarantee the senior secured credit facility. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to reduce capital expenditures, issue additional equity securities or draw on our senior secured revolving credit facility (the "revolving credit facility"). our ability to make scheduled principal payments and to pay interest on our debt depends on the future performance of our operations, which is subject to general conditions in or affecting the hotel and timeshare industries that are beyond our control. our revolving credit facility provides for $1.0 billion in borrowings, including the ability to draw up to $150 million in the form of letters of credit. as of december 31, 2015 , we had $45 million of letters of credit outstanding, leaving us with a borrowing capacity of $955 million . we are currently required to pay a commitment fee of 0.125 percent per annum under the revolving credit facility in respect of the unused commitments thereunder. letters of credit we had a total of $45 million in letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , the majority of which were outstanding under the revolving credit facility and related to our guarantees on debt and other obligations of third parties and self-insurance programs. the maturities of the letters of credit were within one year as of december 31, 2015 . contractual obligations the following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of december 31, 2015 : payments due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) long-term debt (1)(2) $ 11,393 $ 493 $ 4,222 $ 5,077 $ 1,601 non-recourse debt (2) 576 124 283 88 81 capital lease obligations recourse 156 6 12 12 126 non-recourse 288 14 37 46 191 operating leases 2,500 247 437 374 1,442 purchase commitments 307 63 52 187 5 total contractual obligations $ 15,220 $ 947 $ 5,043 $ 5,784 $ 3,446 ____________ (1) we have assumed all extensions, which are solely at our option, were exercised. (2) includes principal, as well as estimated interest payments. for our variable-rate debt we have assumed a constant 30-day libor rate of 0.36 percent as of december 31, 2015 . the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of december 31, 2015 was $407 million . these amounts are excluded from the table above because they are uncertain and subject to the findings of the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where we are subject to tax. it is possible that the amount of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could change during the next year. refer to note 18 : " income taxes " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. in addition to the purchase commitments in the table above, in the normal course of business we enter into purchase commitments for which we are reimbursed by the owners of our managed and franchised hotels. these obligations have minimal or no effect on our net income and cash flow. 67 off-balance sheet arrangements our off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2015 included letters of credit of $45 million , guarantees of $25 million for debt and obligations of third parties, performance guarantees with possible cash outlays totaling approximately $83 million , of which we have accrued $33 million as of december 31, 2015 for estimated probable exposure, and construction contract commitments of approximately $56 million for capital expenditures at our owned, leased and consolidated vie hotels. our contracts contain clauses that allow us to cancel all or some portion of the work. if cancellation of a contract occurred, our commitment would be any costs incurred up to the cancellation date, in addition to any costs associated with the discharge of the contract. additionally, during 2010, in conjunction with a lawsuit settlement, an affiliate of blackstone entered into service contracts with the plaintiff. as part of the settlement, we entered into a guarantee with the plaintiff to pay any shortfall that this affiliate does not fund related to those service contracts. the remaining potential exposure under this guarantee as of december 31, 2015 was approximately $22 million . see note 24 : " commitments and contingencies " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion on these amounts. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods and the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. we believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies are critical because they involve a higher degree of judgment, and the estimates required to be made were based on assumptions that are inherently uncertain. as a result, these accounting policies could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and related disclosures. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates and judgments based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to reflect the current circumstances. while we believe our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information presently available. actual results may differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions and conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of the board of directors. property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives we evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net book value of the assets if we determine there are indicators of potential impairment. if it is determined that the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations as impairment losses. as part of the process described above, we exercise judgment to: determine if there are indicators of impairment present. factors we consider when making this determination include assessing the overall effect of trends in the hospitality industry and the general economy, historical experience, capital costs and other asset-specific information; determine the projected undiscounted future cash flows when indicators of impairment are present. judgment is required when developing projections of future revenues and expenses based on estimated growth rates over the expected useful life of the asset group. these estimated growth rates are based on historical operating results, as well as various internal projections and external sources; and determine the asset fair value when required. in determining the fair value, we often use internally-developed discounted cash flow models. assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models include estimating cash flows, which may require us to adjust for specific market conditions, as well as capitalization rates, which are based on location, property or asset type, market-specific dynamics and overall economic performance. the discount rate takes into account our weighted average cost of capital according to our capital structure and other market specific considerations. 68 we had $9,119 million of property and equipment, net and $1,735 million of intangible assets with finite lives as of december 31, 2015 . changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. in conjunction with our regular assessment of impairment, we did not identify any property and equipment with indicators of impairment for which a 10 percent reduction in our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows would result in additional impairment losses. we did not identify any intangible assets with finite lives for which a 10 percent reduction in our estimates of undiscounted future cash flows, projected operating results or other significant assumptions would result in impairment losses. investments in affiliates we evaluate our investments in affiliates for impairment when there are indicators that the fair value of our investment may be less than our carrying value. we record an impairment loss when we determine there has been an "other-than-temporary" decline in the investment's fair value. if an identified event or change in circumstances requires an evaluation to determine if the value of an investment may have an other-than-temporary decline, we assess the fair value of the investment based on the accepted valuation methods, which include discounted cash flows, estimates of sales proceeds and external appraisals. if an investment's fair value is below its carrying value and the decline is considered to be other-than-temporary, we will recognize an impairment loss in equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates for equity method investments or impairment losses for cost method investments in our consolidated statements of operations. our investments in affiliates consist primarily of our interests in entities that own or lease hotels. as such, the factors we consider when determining if there are indicators of potential impairment are similar to property and equipment discussed above. if there are indicators of potential impairment, we estimate the fair value of our equity method and cost method investments by internally developed discounted cash flow models. the principal factors used in our discounted cash flow models that require judgment are the same as the items discussed in property and equipment above. we had $138 million of investments in affiliates as of december 31, 2015 . changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of investments in affiliates could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. in conjunction with our regular assessment of impairment, we did not identify any investments in affiliates with indicators of impairment for which a 10 percent change in our estimates of future cash flows or other significant assumptions would result in material impairment losses. business combinations property and equipment are recorded at fair value and allocated to land, buildings and leasehold improvements and furniture and equipment using appraisals and valuations performed by management and independent third parties. fair values are based on the exit price (i.e., the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date). we evaluate several factors, including market data for similar assets, expected future cash flows discounted at risk adjusted rates and replacement cost for the assets to determine an appropriate exit price when evaluating the fair value of our assets. changes to these factors could affect the measurement and allocation of fair value. other assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination are recorded based on the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date. goodwill we review the carrying value of our goodwill by comparing the carrying value of our reporting units to their fair value. our reporting units are the same as our operating segments as described in note 23 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. we perform this evaluation annually or at an interim date if indicators of impairment exist. in any given year we may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. if we cannot determine qualitatively that the fair value is in excess of the carrying value, or we decide to bypass the qualitative assessment, we proceed to the two-step quantitative process. in the first step, we evaluate the fair value of our reporting units quantitatively. when determining fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models, as well as market conditions relative to the operations of our reporting units. under the discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates, and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal projections and external sources. the weighted average cost of capital is estimated based on each reporting units' cost of debt and equity and a selected capital structure. the selected capital structure 69 for each reporting unit is based on consideration of capital structures of comparable publicly traded companies operating in the business of that reporting unit. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step must be performed. in the second step, we estimate the implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined by taking the fair value of the reporting unit and allocating it to all of its assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. we had $5,887 million of goodwill as of december 31, 2015 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment testing could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. a change in our estimates and assumptions that would reduce the fair value of each reporting units by 10 percent would not result in an impairment of any of our reporting units. additionally, when a portion of a reporting unit is disposed, goodwill is allocated to the gain or loss on disposition based on the relative fair values of the business or businesses disposed and the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained. when determining fair value of the businesses disposed of and the reporting unit to be retained, we use estimates and assumptions similar to that of those used in our impairment analysis. brands we evaluate our brand intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the brand is below the carrying value. when determining fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models for hotels that we manage or franchise. under the discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal estimates. if a brand's estimated current fair value is less than its respective carrying value, the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations within impairment losses. we had $4,919 million of brand intangible assets as of december 31, 2015 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our brands impairment testing, most notably revenue growth rates and discount rates, could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. a change in our estimates and assumptions that would reduce the fair value of each of our brands by 10 percent would not result in an impairment of any of the brand intangible assets. hilton hhonors hilton hhonors defers revenue received from participating hotels and program partners in an amount equal to the estimated cost per point of the future redemption obligation. we engage outside actuaries to assist in determining the fair value of the future award redemption obligation using statistical formulas that project future point redemptions based on factors that require judgment, including an estimate of "breakage" (points that will never be redeemed), an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed and the cost of the points to be redeemed. the cost of the points to be redeemed includes further estimates of available room nights, occupancy rates, room rates and any devaluation or appreciation of points based on changes in reward prices or changes in points earned per stay. we had $1,278 million of guest loyalty liability as of december 31, 2015 , including $494 million in current liabilities. changes in the estimates used in developing our breakage rate could result in a material change to our guest loyalty liability. a 10 percent decrease to the breakage estimate used in determining future award redemption obligations would increase our guest loyalty liability by approximately $53 million. allowance for loan losses the allowance for loan losses is related to the receivables generated by our financing of timeshare interval sales, which are secured by the underlying timeshare properties. we determine our timeshare financing receivables to be past due based on the contractual terms of the individual mortgage loans. we use a technique referred to as static pool analysis as the basis for determining our general reserve requirements on our timeshare financing receivables. the adequacy of the related allowance is determined by management through analysis of several factors requiring judgment, such as current economic conditions and industry trends, as well as the specific risk characteristics of the portfolio, including assumed default rates. we had $106 million of allowance for loan losses as of december 31, 2015 . changes in the estimates used in developing our default rates could result in a material change to our allowance. a 10 percent increase to our default rates used in the allowance calculation would increase our allowance for loan losses by approximately $43 million. 70 income taxes we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates. we regularly review our deferred tax assets to assess their potential realization and establish a valuation allowance for portions of such assets that we believe will not be ultimately realized. in performing this review, we make estimates and assumptions regarding projected future taxable income, the expected timing of reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. a change in these assumptions may increase or decrease our valuation allowance resulting in an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. we use a prescribed more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return if there is uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. assumptions and estimates are used to determine the more-likely-than-not designation. changes to these assumptions and estimates can lead to an additional income tax benefit (expense), which can materially change our consolidated financial statements. legal contingencies we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. an estimated loss from a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income if it is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. significant judgment is required when we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. changes in these factors could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. consolidations we use judgment when evaluating whether we have a controlling financial interest in an entity, including the assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests in an entity that are not controllable through voting interests. if the entity is considered to be a vie, we use judgment determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, and then consolidate those vies for which we have determined we are the primary beneficiary. if the entity in which we hold an interest does not meet the definition of a vie, we evaluate whether we have a controlling financial interest through our voting interest in the entity. changes to judgments used in evaluating our partnerships and other investments could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. share-based compensation the process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing the associated expense over the requisite service period involves significant management estimates and assumptions. refer to note 20 : " share-based compensation " in our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. any changes to these estimates will affect the amount of compensation expense we recognize with respect to future grants. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect future income, cash flows and fair value of the company, depending on changes to interest rates and/or foreign exchange rates. in certain situations, we may seek to reduce cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. we continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. we enter into derivative financial arrangements to the extent they meet the objective described above, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable-rate debt. interest rates on our variable-rate debt discussed below are based on one-month and three-month libor, so we are most vulnerable to changes in this rate. under the terms of the cmbs loan, we are required to hedge interest rate risk using derivative instruments. as such, we entered into an interest rate cap agreement in the notional amount of the variable-rate component, or $862 million , which caps one-month libor at 6.9 percent and expires in november 2016. in conjunction with the bonnet creek loan, we entered into 71 one interest rate cap in the notional amount of $338 million that expires in may 2016 and caps one-month libor at 3.0 percent . as of december 31, 2015, the fair value of these interest rate caps were immaterial to our consolidated balance sheet. additionally, in october 2013, we entered into four interest rate swap agreements for a combined notional amount of $1.45 billion , with a term of five years, which swapped the floating three-month libor on a portion of the term loans to a fixed rate of 1.87 percent . the fair value of these four interest rate swaps was $15 million and included in other liabilities in our balance sheet as of december 31, 2015 . refer to note 15 : " derivative instruments and hedging activities " in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion of the derivative instruments. the following table sets forth the contractual maturities and the total fair values as of december 31, 2015 for our financial instruments that are materially affected by interest rate risk: maturities by period 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter carrying value fair value (in millions, excluding average interest rates) assets: fixed-rate timeshare financing receivables $ 141 $ 129 $ 131 $ 129 $ 125 $ 427 $ 1,082 $ 1,080 average interest rate (1) 11.88 % liabilities: fixed-rate long-term debt (2) $ 104 $ 54 $ 2,625 $ $ $ 1,500 $ 4,283 $ 4,382 average interest rate (1) 4.95 % fixed-rate non-recourse debt (3) $ 111 $ 65 $ 48 $ 38 $ 30 $ 64 $ 356 $ 356 average interest rate (1) 1.97 % variable-rate long-term debt (4) $ 5 $ 8 $ 802 $ 428 $ 4,225 $ 30 $ 5,498 $ 5,504 average interest rate (1) 3.43 % variable-rate non-recourse debt (5) $ $ 150 $ $ $ $ $ 150 $ 150 average interest rate (1) 1.27 % ____________ (1) average interest rate as of december 31, 2015 . (2) excludes capital lease obligations with a carrying value of $57 million as of december 31, 2015 . (3) represents the securitized timeshare debt. (4) we have assumed all extensions, which are solely at our option, were exercised. (5) represents the timeshare facility. refer to note 16 : " fair value measurements " in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion of the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in various currencies and are exposed to earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our principal exposure results from management and franchise fees earned in foreign currencies and revenues from our international owned and leased hotels, partially offset by foreign operating expenses and capital expenditures, the value of which could change materially in reference to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. we also have exposure from our international financial assets and liabilities, including certain intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested, the value of which could change materially in reference to the functional currencies of the exposed entities. as of december 31, 2015, our largest net exposures were to the euro, british pound, singapore dollar, canadian dollar and australian dollar. as of december 31, 2015, we held 35 short-term foreign exchange forward contracts with a total notional amount of $144 million . these offset exposure to financial assets and liabilities and are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. 72risk factors 13 risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these hotels, resorts and rooms, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest, and the remaining hotels, resorts and rooms are owned by third-party owners. investment funds associated with or designated by the blackstone group l.p. and their affiliates, our former majority owners, are referred to herein as "blackstone." reference to "average daily rate" or "adr" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period and "revenue per available room" or "revpar" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization, or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for further discussion of these financial metrics. item 1. business overview hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,922 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 804,097 rooms in 104 countries and territories as of december 31, 2016 . in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of distinct, market-leading brands. our premier brand portfolio includes: our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton; our full service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites by hilton; our focused service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, tru by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton; our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations; and our new full service brand, tapestry collection by hilton, launched in january 2017. as of december 31, 2016 , more than 169,000 employees served in our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate offices around the world, and we had approximately 60 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton honors. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , we operated our business through three segments: (i) ownership; (ii) management and franchise; and (iii) timeshare. our ownership segment consisted of 141 hotels with 57,716 rooms as of 2 december 31, 2016 in which we had an ownership interest or lease. through our management and franchise segment, which consisted of 4,734 hotels with 738,724 rooms as of december 31, 2016 , we managed hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. through our timeshare segment, which consisted of 47 properties comprising 7,657 units as of december 31, 2016 , we marketed and sold timeshare intervals; operated timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club; and provided consumer financing. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which as of december 31, 2016 included approximately 310,000 rooms scheduled to be opened in the future, over 99 percent of which are within our management and franchise segment. as of december 31, 2016 , over 157,000 rooms, representing half of our development pipeline, were under construction. the expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals, including limited supply growth, in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong, well-defined brands that operate throughout the lodging industry chain scales and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton honors loyalty program. satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and with existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal capital investment from us, put us in a strong position to further improve our business and serve our customers in the future. on january 3, 2017 , we completed the previously announced spin-offs of a portfolio of hotels and resorts, as well as our timeshare business, into two additional and independent, publicly traded companies: park hotels &amp; resorts inc. ("park") and hilton grand vacations inc. ("hgv"), respectively, (the "spin-offs"). the spin-offs were completed via a distribution to each of hilton's stockholders of record, as of the close of business on december 15, 2016, of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of park and hgv. each hilton stockholder received one share of park common stock for every five shares of hilton common stock and one share of hgv common stock for every 10 shares of hilton common stock. both park and hgv have their common stock listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbols "pk" and "hgv," respectively. see item 1a. risk factors and note 29 : " subsequent events " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion. unless otherwise stated herein, this annual report on form 10-k presents our business and results of operations as of and for the historical periods presented, without giving effect to the spin-offs and based on the three segments we operated our business through prior to closing the spin-offs. refer to pro forma financial information included in our current report on form 8-k filed with the securities and exchange commission ("sec") on january 4, 2017 for the historical results of operations and performance of hilton giving effect to the spin-offs, and refer to the registration statements on form 10 of park and hgv and their subsequent periodic reports filed with the sec for their respective historical financial results. additionally, refer to our press release on our fourth quarter and full year 2016 results for pro forma financial information for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in our current report on form 8-k filed with the sec on february 15, 2017. neither the registration statements on form 10 of park and hgv, their subsequent periodic and other reports filed with the sec, nor the pro forma financial information included in our current reports on form 8-k filed on january 4, 2017 and february 15, 2017 are incorporated by reference herein. on january 3, 2017 , we completed a 1-for-3 reverse stock split of hilton's outstanding common stock (the "reverse stock split"). the authorized number of shares of common stock was reduced from 30,000,000,000 to 10,000,000,000, and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock remains 3,000,000,000. all share and share-related information presented in this annual report on form 10-k have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the decreased number of shares resulting from the reverse stock split. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2016 brand (1) chain scale countries/ territories properties rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 12 26 10,203 1.3% four seasons, mandarin oriental, peninsula, ritz carlton, st. regis luxury 22 29 9,554 1.2% fairmont, intercontinental, jw marriott, park hyatt, sofitel lifestyle 1 1 112 % hyatt centric, joie de vivre, kimpton, le meridien upper upscale 85 570 208,762 26.0% hyatt regency, marriott, radisson blu, renaissance, sheraton, sofitel, westin upper upscale 7 31 7,242 0.9% autograph collection, luxury collection, tribute portfolio upscale 41 494 117,699 14.6% crowne plaza, delta, holiday inn, hyatt, radisson, renaissance, sheraton upscale n/a ascend collection, best western premier, tribute portfolio upper upscale 6 232 54,589 6.8% hyatt, renaissance, residence inn, sheraton upscale 33 717 102,786 12.8% aloft, courtyard, four points, holiday inn, hyatt place, novotel upper midscale 19 2,221 223,114 27.7% americinn, comfort inn, fairfield inn, holiday inn express, wingate midscale n/a best western, comfort inn, fairfield inn, la quinta, ramada upscale 3 418 47,104 5.9% element, hyatt house, residence inn, springhill suites, staybridge suites upper midscale 2 129 13,349 1.7% candlewood suites, hawthorn suites, towneplace suites timeshare 3 47 7,657 1.0% hyatt residence, marriott vacation club, vistana signature experiences, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes seven unbranded properties with 1,926 rooms, representing approximately 0.1 percent of total rooms. hgv has exclusive right to use our hilton grand vacations brand, subject to the terms of a license agreement with us. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. 4 waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 26 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of 29 properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton represents an energizing, new hotel in the neighborhood offering simple, guest-directed service, thoughtful local choices and comfortable spaces. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture. in july 2016, the first canopy opened in reykjavik, iceland. as of january 31, 2017 , canopy had 35 properties in the pipeline or in various states of approval. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with 570 hotels and resorts in 85 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services. curio a collection by hilton : curio a collection by hilton is created for travelers who seek local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. curio is made up of a collection of hand-picked hotels that retain their unique identity but are able to leverage the many benefits of the hilton global platform, including our common reservation and customer care service and hilton honors guest loyalty program. as of january 31, 2017 , curio had 110 properties in the pipeline or in various states of approval. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree's 494 open hotels and resorts are united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and its iconic warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. tapestry collection by hilton : tapestry collection by hilton, our newest brand, is a curated portfolio of original hotels in the upscale hotel segment that have recognizable features distinct to each hotel. tapestry guests are looking for new experiences and choose to stay where they can expect to never see the same thing twice. travelers can book an independent and reliable stay with confidence knowing these hotels are backed by the hilton name and the award winning hilton honors program. as of january 31, 2017 , tapestry collection by hilton had commitments for seven properties. the first property is expected to open by the third quarter of 2017 . embassy suites by hilton : embassy suites by hilton comprises 232 upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive all of the amenities our properties have to offer at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale brand with 717 hotels that strives to ensure today's busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. from the serta perfect sleeper bed, to complimentary internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, hilton garden inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys. hampton by hilton : hampton by hilton is our moderately priced, upper midscale hotel with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton by hilton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel rooms and suite accommodations within one property. across our over 2,200 hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the 100% hampton guarantee. tru by hilton: tru by hilton is a new brand designed to be a game changer in the midscale segment. tru was built from a belief that being cost conscious and having a great stay do not have to be mutually exclusive. by focusing on the brand's three key tenets of simplified, spirited and grounded in value, every detail of the property is crafted for operational efficiency and to 5 drive increased guest satisfaction - from the activated, open lobby to the efficiently designed bedrooms. as of january 31, 2017 , tru had 383 properties in the pipeline or in various states of approval. the first property is expected to open in the second quarter of 2017. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton is our upscale, extended-stay hotel that features residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. these 418 hotels provide the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton is our upper midscale hotel that provides a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. each of the brand's 129 hotels, 57 of which were opened in 2016, offers complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. during 2016, 121 properties were added to our pipeline, and as of january 31, 2017 , 476 properties were in the pipeline or in various states of approval. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of the 47 hilton grand vacations properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our customer loyalty program hilton honors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,900 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other goods and services. members can also use points earned to transact with nearly 130 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 60 million members. our hilton honors members represented approximately 56 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues to us and our hotel owners of over $17 billion during the year ended december 31, 2016 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton honors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton honors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. our business during the year ended december, 31 2016, we operated our business across three segments: (i) ownership; (ii) management and franchise; and (iii) timeshare. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 23 : " business segments " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 as of december 31, 2016 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,174 9 5,403 13 6,577 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 142 1 984 2 1,126 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 2 436 2 436 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,316 4 1,316 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 294 1 294 europe 1 192 2 707 1 256 4 1,155 middle east and africa 1 614 3 1,079 4 1,693 asia pacific 14 4,320 2 776 16 5,096 canopy by hilton europe 1 112 1 112 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 25 23,089 37 23,895 179 54,032 241 101,016 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 1,668 22 7,432 18 5,810 43 14,910 europe 68 17,695 44 14,912 31 8,510 143 41,117 middle east and africa 6 2,279 45 13,968 1 411 52 16,658 asia pacific 7 3,403 77 28,832 7 2,826 91 35,061 curio - a collection by hilton u.s. 1 224 1 1,000 22 4,921 24 6,145 americas (excluding u.s.) 4 585 4 585 europe 2 311 2 311 middle east and africa 1 201 1 201 doubletree by hilton u.s. 10 4,093 27 8,140 289 68,840 326 81,073 americas (excluding u.s.) 5 1,035 17 3,365 22 4,400 europe 12 3,348 74 12,512 86 15,860 middle east and africa 9 2,114 4 488 13 2,602 asia pacific 45 12,799 2 965 47 13,764 embassy suites by hilton u.s. 10 2,402 33 8,935 181 41,296 224 52,633 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 634 5 1,322 8 1,956 hilton garden inn u.s. 2 290 4 430 598 82,497 604 83,217 americas (excluding u.s.) 8 1,071 31 4,954 39 6,025 europe 20 3,578 32 5,270 52 8,848 middle east and africa 6 1,334 6 1,334 asia pacific 16 3,362 16 3,362 hampton by hilton u.s. 1 130 49 5,992 2,017 196,579 2,067 202,701 americas (excluding u.s.) 11 1,420 86 10,210 97 11,630 europe 13 2,090 35 5,108 48 7,198 asia pacific 9 1,585 9 1,585 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 25 2,687 375 42,377 400 45,064 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 219 16 1,821 18 2,040 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 126 13,032 126 13,032 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 317 3 317 other 2 888 5 1,038 7 1,926 lodging 141 57,716 559 165,320 4,175 573,404 4,875 796,440 hilton grand vacations 47 7,657 47 7,657 total 141 57,716 606 172,977 4,175 573,404 4,922 804,097 ____________ (1) includes properties owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. also includes 67 owned and leased hotels that were owned by park effective january 3, 2017 as a result of the completion of the spin-offs. 7 ownership as of december 31, 2016, we were one of the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties included a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as new york city, london, san francisco, chicago, o paolo and tokyo. the portfolio included iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including the hilton new york, hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. in recent years, we expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners. as noted in the "overview" section, on january 3, 2017 , we completed the spin-off of a portfolio of 67 of our owned and leased hotels and resorts to park in continuation of this strategy. these hotels will continue to be a part of the hilton system as managed and franchised properties pursuant to management and franchise agreements entered into in connection with the spin-offs. as a hotel owner, we focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property and, at many of our hotels, we renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. at certain of our hotels, we activated options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use. management and franchise through our management and franchise segment, we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel and timeshare management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of the hotel's gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. owners are also responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2016 , we managed 559 hotels with 165,320 rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels and timeshare properties. the initial terms of our management agreements for full service hotels typically are 20 to 30 years. in certain cases, where we have entered into a franchise agreement, as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full service hotels. typically, these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. in the case of our management agreements with park, assuming we exercise all renewal periods, the total term of the management agreements will range from 30 to 70 years. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. in addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, as of december 31, 2016 , we provided management services for 47 timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and 141 owned, leased and joint venture hotels from which we recognized management fee revenues. revenues from our owned and leased hotels are eliminated in our audited consolidated 8 financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. following the spin-off of hgv, we no longer provide management services to the timeshare properties. franchising we franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. we do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained. we approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. in some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system. as of december 31, 2016 , we franchised 4,175 hotels with 573,404 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. our franchise agreements for new construction and our franchise agreements with park typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years and properties that are converted from other brands have initial terms of approximately 10 to 20 years. at the expiration of the initial term, we may have a contractual right or obligation to relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. our franchise agreements with park cannot be extended without our consent. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. timeshare hgv, our previously owned timeshare segment, generates revenue from three primary sources: timeshare sales hgv markets and sells timeshare interests previously owned by hilton and third parties. hgv also sources timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. this allows hgv to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers using the hilton grand vacations brand in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property. resort operations hgv manages the hgv club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. hgv generates rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under the hgv club program. hgv also earns revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties. financing hgv provides consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans. hgv's primary product is the marketing and selling of fee simple timeshare interests deeded in perpetuity, developed either by us or by third parties. this ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the hgv club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of club points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the hgv system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to hilton honors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 4,300 resorts included in the rci timeshare vacation exchange network. in addition, hgv operates the hilton club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the hilton new york, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the hgv club. as of december 31, 2016 , hgv managed a global system of 47 resorts and the hgv club and the hilton club had nearly 270,000 members in total. as noted in the "overview" section, on january 3, 2017 , we completed the spin-off of our timeshare business, and these timeshare properties will remain in hilton's system as franchised properties pursuant to a license agreement with hgv. 9 competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor, owner and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public and meeting spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor, owner and operator of hotels with an associated system-wide customer loyalty platform makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, hongkong and shanghai hotels, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, m venpick hotels and resorts and wyndham worldwide corporation. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result, in a negative economic environment the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. the vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employee, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. 10 we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in 104 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws and tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. in addition, our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to additional laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. in addition to our hotel accommodations, we operate a number of laundry facilities located in certain areas where we have multiple properties. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of wastes that we generate, including at locations where such wastes have been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination pursuant to our management or franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and operated properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. insurance u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in certain of our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners. if not participating in our programs, hotel owners must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. non-u.s. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. in addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of hotels owned by such third parties. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks and we believe such risks are prudent for us to assume. our third-party insurance policies provide coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insurance retentions or deductible obligations. we maintain insurance 11 coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers' compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned and leased hotels. in addition, through our captive insurance subsidiary, we participate in a reinsurance arrangement that provides coverage for a certain portion of our deductibles. in general, our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. corporate responsibility the success of our business is linked to the success of communities in which our hotels operate - from the local owners who partner with us to build hotels, to the local talent that operate the hotels, to the local economies and businesses our hotels support through sourcing products serving guests. travel with purpose, our corporate responsibility strategy, is a holistic approach that leverages our global footprint and scale coupled with local insights and partnerships to address global and local challenges. creating shared value for hotel employees, guests, owners, communities and overall business is a strategic priority we strive to achieve by focusing on advancing three priority, material issue areas: creating opportunities - youth opportunity, great place to work, intrapreneurship: we have a passion, and a responsibility to invest in current and future employees. we open doors that help individuals build meaningful job and life skills through the hospitality industry. strengthening communities - skills-based volunteering, human rights, disaster support: we encourage and enable our employees to deliver hospitality to our communities. we are committed to having a positive economic and social impact on the millions of communities and lives we touch. preserving environment - energy, carbon, water, waste, responsible sourcing: as environmental stewards for the wellbeing of people and ecosystems in our communities, we protect the environment through efficient and responsible operations and sourcing. lightstay , our proprietary corporate responsibility performance measurement platform, is a global brand standard that allows us to manage the impact of our hotels on the environment and global community through the measurement, analysis and improvement of our use of natural resources, opportunities created and community service. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced corporate operations in 1946. employees as of december 31, 2016 , more than 169,000 people were employed at our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate locations. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 30 percent of our employees globally (or 30 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. 12 item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including energy, food, employee compensation and benefits and insurance; increases in costs due to inflation or other factors that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the quality of services provided by franchisees; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture agreements; cyclical over-building in the hotel industry; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services, including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. 13 macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at our hotels. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; governmental action and uncertainty resulting from u.s. and global political trends, including potential barriers to travel, trade and immigration; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, zika, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) and h1n1 (swine flu); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; and organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased properties. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. 14 the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full service and focused service hotels, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators, home and apartment sharing services and timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater commercial, financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively, or they could offer a type of lodging product that customers find attractive but that we do not offer. competition for management and franchise agreements we compete to enter into management and franchise agreements. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us for our services may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events at our hotels and resorts can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity. we also could face legal claims related to negative events, along with resulting adverse publicity. a perceived decline in the quality of our brands or damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 our business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party property owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise agreements, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new and renew management and franchise agreements. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise agreements or enter into new agreements on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise agreements, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. a repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise agreement or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline and limit additional development to further expand our hotel portfolio. if our third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise agreements, as well as our license agreement with hgv, require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands, which include requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise agreements require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a property owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, 16 the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2016 , we had a total of 1,968 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing and obtaining governmental or regulatory approvals. as a result, not every hotel in our development pipeline may develop into a new hotel that enters our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we launched a new upscale brand, tapestry collection by hilton, in january 2017 and a new midscale brand, tru by hilton, in january 2016. we introduced a new brand, canopy by hilton, in october 2014, opened our first curio - a collection by hilton hotel in august 2014 and opened our first home2 suites by hilton hotel in 2011. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states in recent years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the risks resulting from investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. although we recently completed the spin-off of park, we still own or lease real property, which subjects us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; loss in value of real estate due to changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located; increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties and to deliver properties back to landlords in a particular state of repair and condition at the end of a lease term; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with any mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; contingent liabilities that exist after we have exited a property; costs linked to the employment and management of staff to run and operate an owned or leased property; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. 17 the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned or leased properties because we, as the owner or lessee, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned and leased property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed many years ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis, or acts of terrorism; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements, including certain of our iconic and most profitable properties. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non- 18 performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton honors customer loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. although we are migrating portions of our operations to cloud-based providers, any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we transfer production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 19 cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are difficult to detect for long periods of time, and we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. in november 2015, we announced that we had identified and taken action to eradicate unauthorized malware that targeted payment card information in some point-of-sale systems in our hotels and had determined that specific payment card information was targeted by this malware. we expect we will be subject to additional cyber-attacks in the future and may experience data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other costs or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. in addition, states and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able 20 to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we also may divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns or otherwise fail to achieve the benefits we expect. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email and social media marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws and court or agency interpretation of such laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu general data protection regulation, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our business. if these bookings increase, certain hospitality intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. these hospitality intermediaries also may reduce these bookings by de-ranking our hotels in search results on their platforms, and other online providers may divert business away from our hotels. although our agreements with many hospitality intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites. internet travel intermediaries also have been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual consumers or "transient" business rather than group and convention business, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and convention business. consolidation of internet travel 21 intermediaries, and the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online, by telephone to our call centers or through devices via our mobile application, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton honors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton honors guest loyalty and rewards program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise agreements. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the guest's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton honors arranges with third-party service providers, such as airlines and rail companies, to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton honors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 104 countries and territories around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 20 percent and 22 percent of our revenues for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the effect of disruptions caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; 22 instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as "brexit"); uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues from and the market value of our properties located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the fcpa, as well as trade sanctions administered by the ofac. the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we manage or own in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to or receive funds from persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of blackstone or blackstone's affiliates or, following blackstone's proposed sale of our common stock to hna tourism group co., ltd. ( hna ), hna and hna's affiliates. other affiliates of blackstone or hna have in the past or may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference herein. disclosure of such activities and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. 23 the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, significant customers, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 30 percent ) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately nine percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage employees. we employ or manage more than 169,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to manage and staff the managed, owned and leased hotels could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have over 5,700 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other intellectual property. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important 24 intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we have granted hgv the right to use certain of our marks and intellectual property in its timeshare business and we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if hgv, a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; limit our ability to develop new intellectual property; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. 25 to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions. however, these hedging agreements may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses vary, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the program ) to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2020, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. 26 the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2006 through december 31, 2010 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton honors guest loyalty and reward program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $874 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. additionally, the irs has notified us of its intention to examine the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 through december 31, 2013. see note 18 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. in addition, the national 27 labor relations board has revised its standard for joint employee relationships, which could increase our risk of being considered a joint employer with our franchisees. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise agreement or negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. our obligations under this settlement expired in march 2015 except that certain managed and franchised hotels that were required to conduct surveys of their facilities remain under an obligation to remove architectural barriers at their facilities through march 15, 2022 and we have an obligation to have an independent consultant to monitor those barrier removal efforts during this period. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects that could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 28 casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic and political conditions; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including puerto rico and egypt, have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits or disputes involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our recent spin-offs we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-offs. although we believe that separating our ownership business and our timeshare business by means of the spin-offs will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our stockholders, the spin-offs may not provide results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. for example, if the statutory and regulatory requirements relating to reits are not met by park, the benefits of spinning off the ownership business may be reduced or may be unavailable to us, our stockholders and stockholders of park. in addition, the costs we incur in connection with, or as a result of, the spin-offs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize. if we do not realize the intended benefits of the spin-offs or if our costs exceed our estimates, we or the businesses that were spun off could suffer a material adverse effect on our or their business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the spin-offs could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received a private letter ruling from the irs on certain issues relevant to qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). although the private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, the continued validity of the private letter ruling will be based upon and subject to the accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the irs by us. further, the private letter ruling is limited to specified aspects of the spin-offs under section 355 of the code and does not represent a determination by the irs that all of the 29 requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock and to us have been satisfied. moreover, if any statement or representation upon which the private letter ruling was based was incorrect or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts that prevailed at the time of the spin-offs, the private letter ruling could be invalidated. the opinion of tax counsel we received in connection with the spin-offs regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the code similarly relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spun-off companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. additionally, recently enacted legislation denies tax-free treatment to a spin-off in which either the distributing corporation or the spun-off corporation is a reit and prevents a distributing corporation or a spun-off corporation from electing reit status for a 10-year period following a tax-free spin-off. under an effective date provision, the legislation does not apply to distributions described in a ruling request initially submitted to the irs before december 7, 2015. because our initial request for the private letter ruling was submitted before that date and because we believe the distribution has been described in that initial request, we believe the legislation does not apply to the spin-off of park. however, no ruling was obtained on that issue and thus no assurance can be given in that regard. in particular, the irs or a court could disagree with our view regarding the effective date provision based on any differences that exist between the description in the ruling request and the actual facts relating to the spin-offs. if the legislation applied to the spin-off of park, either the spin-off would not qualify for tax-free treatment or park would not be eligible to elect reit status for a 10-year period following the spin-off. if the spin-offs and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, the company would be subject to a substantial tax liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-offs were taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of park and hgv would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. park or hgv may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that we have executed as part of the spin-offs. in connection with the spin-offs, we, park and hgv entered into a distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and, as to park, management agreements, and, as to hgv, a license agreement. certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other following the spin-offs. we are relying on park and hgv to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. in addition, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us, park and hgv and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to park and to hgv, particularly if park or hgv were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. the impact of any of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could cause reputational harm and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us for certain liabilities. these indemnities may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by park and hgv, and park and hgv may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us with respect to such parties' assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or other agreements related to the spin-offs. there can be no assurance that the indemnities from each of park and hgv will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities. third parties also could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that park and hgv have agreed to assume. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from park or hgv any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are required to indemnify park or hgv in connection with the spin-offs, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, which could negatively affect our financial results. pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs and certain other agreements among park and hgv and us, we agreed to indemnify each of park and hgv from certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide park and/or hgv may be significant and could negatively affect our business. 30 risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2016 , our total indebtedness, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs and discounts, was approximately $10.9 billion , including $696 million of timeshare debt, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt and timeshare debt for the years ending december 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, were $179 million , $110 million and $543 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures or dividends to stockholders and to pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indentures that govern our senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; 31 enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after june 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 30 percent of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.0 to 1.0. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to pay dividends to our stockholders will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. finally, our ability to raise additional equity capital may be restricted by the stockholders agreement we entered into with hgv and certain entities affiliated with blackstone that is intended to preserve the tax-free status of the spin-offs of park and hgv. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding three risk factors would increase. 32 risks related to ownership of our common stock the interests of certain of our stockholders may conflict with ours or yours in the future. blackstone and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 40.3 percent of our common stock as of december 31, 2016 . hna has agreed to acquire 25 percent of our outstanding common stock from blackstone. moreover, under our bylaws and the stockholders' agreement with blackstone, for so long as it retains specified levels of ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by blackstone. if blackstone's proposed sale of our common stock to hna closes, hna will have specified board designation rights, as described in our current report on form 8-k filed on october 24, 2016. thus, for so long as blackstone and hna continue to own specified percentages of our stock, each will be able to influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, during that period of time, each of blackstone and hna will have influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. for example, for so long as blackstone or hna continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, blackstone or hna may be able to influence whether or not a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors occurs. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. each of blackstone and hna and its respective affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in the hospitality industry. in the ordinary course of their business activities, each of blackstone and hna and their respective affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with ours or those of our stockholders. for example, blackstone owns interests in extended stay america, inc., la quinta holdings inc., park hotels &amp; resorts inc. and hilton grand vacations inc., and certain other investments in the hospitality industry and may pursue ventures that compete directly or indirectly with us. hna acquired carlson hotels in december 2016 and has an interest in nh hotel group. in addition, affiliates of blackstone and hna directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel development projects, that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of blackstone, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his or her director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. under the company's stockholders agreement with hna, the company agreed to renounce any interest or expectancy, or right to be offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity or corporate opportunity presented to hna or its affiliates. blackstone or hna also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may be unavailable to us. in addition, blackstone or hna may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their respective investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we may change our dividend policy at any time. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by certain investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. in addition, blackstone has pledged substantially all of the shares of our common stock held by it pursuant to a margin loan agreement and any foreclosure upon those shares could result in sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, which could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. pursuant to registration rights agreements, blackstone and certain management stockholders have, and hna will have, the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares represented approximately 41.2 percent of our outstanding common stock as of 33 december 31, 2016 . these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which blackstone ceases to beneficially own at least 40 percent of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office, which would be the case upon closing of the hna transaction; these provisions provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 item 8 financial statements and supplementary data 69 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosures 127 item 9a. controls and procedures 127 item 9b. other information 127 part iii 128 item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 128 item 11. executive compensation 128 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 128 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 128 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 128 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 129 item 16. form 10-k summary 133 signatures 134 1 part i forward -looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended (the "securities act") and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "exchange act"). these statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to our expectations regarding the performance of our business, our financial results, our liquidity and capital resources, the spin-off transactions and other non-historical statements. in some cases, you can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "outlook," "believes," "expects," "potential," "continues," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seeks," "projects," "predicts," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "anticipates" or the negative version of these words or other comparable words. such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, among others, risks inherent to the hospitality industry, macroeconomic factors beyond our control, competition for hotel guests, management and franchise agreements, risks related to doing business with third-party hotel owners, performance of our information technology systems, growth of reservation channels outside of our system, risks of doing business outside of the united states of america ("u.s."), risks related to our spin-offs and our indebtedness. accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. we believe these factors include but are not limited to those described under "part i item 1a. risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these hotels, resorts and rooms, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest, and the remaining hotels, resorts and rooms are owned by third-party owners. investment funds associated with or designated by the blackstone group l.p. and their affiliates, our former majority owners, are referred to herein as "blackstone." reference to "average daily rate" or "adr" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period and "revenue per available room" or "revpar" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, taxes and depreciation and amortization, or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for further discussion of these financial metrics. item 1. business overview hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,922 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 804,097 rooms in 104 countries and territories as of december 31, 2016 . in the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of distinct, market-leading brands. our premier brand portfolio includes: our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton; our full service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites by hilton; our focused service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, tru by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton; our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations; and our new full service brand, tapestry collection by hilton, launched in january 2017. as of december 31, 2016 , more than 169,000 employees served in our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate offices around the world, and we had approximately 60 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton honors. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , we operated our business through three segments: (i) ownership; (ii) management and franchise; and (iii) timeshare. our ownership segment consisted of 141 hotels with 57,716 rooms as of 2 december 31, 2016 in which we had an ownership interest or lease. through our management and franchise segment, which consisted of 4,734 hotels with 738,724 rooms as of december 31, 2016 , we managed hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. through our timeshare segment, which consisted of 47 properties comprising 7,657 units as of december 31, 2016 , we marketed and sold timeshare intervals; operated timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club; and provided consumer financing. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which as of december 31, 2016 included approximately 310,000 rooms scheduled to be opened in the future, over 99 percent of which are within our management and franchise segment. as of december 31, 2016 , over 157,000 rooms, representing half of our development pipeline, were under construction. the expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals, including limited supply growth, in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong, well-defined brands that operate throughout the lodging industry chain scales and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton honors loyalty program. satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and with existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal capital investment from us, put us in a strong position to further improve our business and serve our customers in the future. on january 3, 2017 , we completed the previously announced spin-offs of a portfolio of hotels and resorts, as well as our timeshare business, into two additional and independent, publicly traded companies: park hotels &amp; resorts inc. ("park") and hilton grand vacations inc. ("hgv"), respectively, (the "spin-offs"). the spin-offs were completed via a distribution to each of hilton's stockholders of record, as of the close of business on december 15, 2016, of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of park and hgv. each hilton stockholder received one share of park common stock for every five shares of hilton common stock and one share of hgv common stock for every 10 shares of hilton common stock. both park and hgv have their common stock listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbols "pk" and "hgv," respectively. see item 1a. risk factors and note 29 : " subsequent events " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion. unless otherwise stated herein, this annual report on form 10-k presents our business and results of operations as of and for the historical periods presented, without giving effect to the spin-offs and based on the three segments we operated our business through prior to closing the spin-offs. refer to pro forma financial information included in our current report on form 8-k filed with the securities and exchange commission ("sec") on january 4, 2017 for the historical results of operations and performance of hilton giving effect to the spin-offs, and refer to the registration statements on form 10 of park and hgv and their subsequent periodic reports filed with the sec for their respective historical financial results. additionally, refer to our press release on our fourth quarter and full year 2016 results for pro forma financial information for the year ended december 31, 2016, included in our current report on form 8-k filed with the sec on february 15, 2017. neither the registration statements on form 10 of park and hgv, their subsequent periodic and other reports filed with the sec, nor the pro forma financial information included in our current reports on form 8-k filed on january 4, 2017 and february 15, 2017 are incorporated by reference herein. on january 3, 2017 , we completed a 1-for-3 reverse stock split of hilton's outstanding common stock (the "reverse stock split"). the authorized number of shares of common stock was reduced from 30,000,000,000 to 10,000,000,000, and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock remains 3,000,000,000. all share and share-related information presented in this annual report on form 10-k have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the decreased number of shares resulting from the reverse stock split. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2016 brand (1) chain scale countries/ territories properties rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 12 26 10,203 1.3% four seasons, mandarin oriental, peninsula, ritz carlton, st. regis luxury 22 29 9,554 1.2% fairmont, intercontinental, jw marriott, park hyatt, sofitel lifestyle 1 1 112 % hyatt centric, joie de vivre, kimpton, le meridien upper upscale 85 570 208,762 26.0% hyatt regency, marriott, radisson blu, renaissance, sheraton, sofitel, westin upper upscale 7 31 7,242 0.9% autograph collection, luxury collection, tribute portfolio upscale 41 494 117,699 14.6% crowne plaza, delta, holiday inn, hyatt, radisson, renaissance, sheraton upscale n/a ascend collection, best western premier, tribute portfolio upper upscale 6 232 54,589 6.8% hyatt, renaissance, residence inn, sheraton upscale 33 717 102,786 12.8% aloft, courtyard, four points, holiday inn, hyatt place, novotel upper midscale 19 2,221 223,114 27.7% americinn, comfort inn, fairfield inn, holiday inn express, wingate midscale n/a best western, comfort inn, fairfield inn, la quinta, ramada upscale 3 418 47,104 5.9% element, hyatt house, residence inn, springhill suites, staybridge suites upper midscale 2 129 13,349 1.7% candlewood suites, hawthorn suites, towneplace suites timeshare 3 47 7,657 1.0% hyatt residence, marriott vacation club, vistana signature experiences, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes seven unbranded properties with 1,926 rooms, representing approximately 0.1 percent of total rooms. hgv has exclusive right to use our hilton grand vacations brand, subject to the terms of a license agreement with us. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. 4 waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 26 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of 29 properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton represents an energizing, new hotel in the neighborhood offering simple, guest-directed service, thoughtful local choices and comfortable spaces. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture. in july 2016, the first canopy opened in reykjavik, iceland. as of january 31, 2017 , canopy had 35 properties in the pipeline or in various states of approval. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with 570 hotels and resorts in 85 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services. curio a collection by hilton : curio a collection by hilton is created for travelers who seek local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. curio is made up of a collection of hand-picked hotels that retain their unique identity but are able to leverage the many benefits of the hilton global platform, including our common reservation and customer care service and hilton honors guest loyalty program. as of january 31, 2017 , curio had 110 properties in the pipeline or in various states of approval. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree's 494 open hotels and resorts are united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and its iconic warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. tapestry collection by hilton : tapestry collection by hilton, our newest brand, is a curated portfolio of original hotels in the upscale hotel segment that have recognizable features distinct to each hotel. tapestry guests are looking for new experiences and choose to stay where they can expect to never see the same thing twice. travelers can book an independent and reliable stay with confidence knowing these hotels are backed by the hilton name and the award winning hilton honors program. as of january 31, 2017 , tapestry collection by hilton had commitments for seven properties. the first property is expected to open by the third quarter of 2017 . embassy suites by hilton : embassy suites by hilton comprises 232 upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive all of the amenities our properties have to offer at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale brand with 717 hotels that strives to ensure today's busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. from the serta perfect sleeper bed, to complimentary internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, hilton garden inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys. hampton by hilton : hampton by hilton is our moderately priced, upper midscale hotel with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton by hilton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel rooms and suite accommodations within one property. across our over 2,200 hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the 100% hampton guarantee. tru by hilton: tru by hilton is a new brand designed to be a game changer in the midscale segment. tru was built from a belief that being cost conscious and having a great stay do not have to be mutually exclusive. by focusing on the brand's three key tenets of simplified, spirited and grounded in value, every detail of the property is crafted for operational efficiency and to 5 drive increased guest satisfaction - from the activated, open lobby to the efficiently designed bedrooms. as of january 31, 2017 , tru had 383 properties in the pipeline or in various states of approval. the first property is expected to open in the second quarter of 2017. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton is our upscale, extended-stay hotel that features residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. these 418 hotels provide the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton is our upper midscale hotel that provides a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. each of the brand's 129 hotels, 57 of which were opened in 2016, offers complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. during 2016, 121 properties were added to our pipeline, and as of january 31, 2017 , 476 properties were in the pipeline or in various states of approval. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of the 47 hilton grand vacations properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our customer loyalty program hilton honors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,900 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other goods and services. members can also use points earned to transact with nearly 130 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 60 million members. our hilton honors members represented approximately 56 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues to us and our hotel owners of over $17 billion during the year ended december 31, 2016 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton honors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton honors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. our business during the year ended december, 31 2016, we operated our business across three segments: (i) ownership; (ii) management and franchise; and (iii) timeshare. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 23 : " business segments " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 6 as of december 31, 2016 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,174 9 5,403 13 6,577 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 142 1 984 2 1,126 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 2 436 2 436 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,316 4 1,316 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 294 1 294 europe 1 192 2 707 1 256 4 1,155 middle east and africa 1 614 3 1,079 4 1,693 asia pacific 14 4,320 2 776 16 5,096 canopy by hilton europe 1 112 1 112 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 25 23,089 37 23,895 179 54,032 241 101,016 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 1,668 22 7,432 18 5,810 43 14,910 europe 68 17,695 44 14,912 31 8,510 143 41,117 middle east and africa 6 2,279 45 13,968 1 411 52 16,658 asia pacific 7 3,403 77 28,832 7 2,826 91 35,061 curio - a collection by hilton u.s. 1 224 1 1,000 22 4,921 24 6,145 americas (excluding u.s.) 4 585 4 585 europe 2 311 2 311 middle east and africa 1 201 1 201 doubletree by hilton u.s. 10 4,093 27 8,140 289 68,840 326 81,073 americas (excluding u.s.) 5 1,035 17 3,365 22 4,400 europe 12 3,348 74 12,512 86 15,860 middle east and africa 9 2,114 4 488 13 2,602 asia pacific 45 12,799 2 965 47 13,764 embassy suites by hilton u.s. 10 2,402 33 8,935 181 41,296 224 52,633 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 634 5 1,322 8 1,956 hilton garden inn u.s. 2 290 4 430 598 82,497 604 83,217 americas (excluding u.s.) 8 1,071 31 4,954 39 6,025 europe 20 3,578 32 5,270 52 8,848 middle east and africa 6 1,334 6 1,334 asia pacific 16 3,362 16 3,362 hampton by hilton u.s. 1 130 49 5,992 2,017 196,579 2,067 202,701 americas (excluding u.s.) 11 1,420 86 10,210 97 11,630 europe 13 2,090 35 5,108 48 7,198 asia pacific 9 1,585 9 1,585 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 25 2,687 375 42,377 400 45,064 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 219 16 1,821 18 2,040 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 126 13,032 126 13,032 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 317 3 317 other 2 888 5 1,038 7 1,926 lodging 141 57,716 559 165,320 4,175 573,404 4,875 796,440 hilton grand vacations 47 7,657 47 7,657 total 141 57,716 606 172,977 4,175 573,404 4,922 804,097 ____________ (1) includes properties owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. also includes 67 owned and leased hotels that were owned by park effective january 3, 2017 as a result of the completion of the spin-offs. 7 ownership as of december 31, 2016, we were one of the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties included a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as new york city, london, san francisco, chicago, o paolo and tokyo. the portfolio included iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including the hilton new york, hilton hawaiian village and the london hilton on park lane. real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. in recent years, we expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners. as noted in the "overview" section, on january 3, 2017 , we completed the spin-off of a portfolio of 67 of our owned and leased hotels and resorts to park in continuation of this strategy. these hotels will continue to be a part of the hilton system as managed and franchised properties pursuant to management and franchise agreements entered into in connection with the spin-offs. as a hotel owner, we focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property and, at many of our hotels, we renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. at certain of our hotels, we activated options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use. management and franchise through our management and franchise segment, we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel and timeshare management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of the hotel's gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. owners are also responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2016 , we managed 559 hotels with 165,320 rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels and timeshare properties. the initial terms of our management agreements for full service hotels typically are 20 to 30 years. in certain cases, where we have entered into a franchise agreement, as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full service hotels. typically, these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. in the case of our management agreements with park, assuming we exercise all renewal periods, the total term of the management agreements will range from 30 to 70 years. some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. in addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, as of december 31, 2016 , we provided management services for 47 timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and 141 owned, leased and joint venture hotels from which we recognized management fee revenues. revenues from our owned and leased hotels are eliminated in our audited consolidated 8 financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. following the spin-off of hgv, we no longer provide management services to the timeshare properties. franchising we franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. we do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained. we approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. in some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system. as of december 31, 2016 , we franchised 4,175 hotels with 573,404 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. our franchise agreements for new construction and our franchise agreements with park typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years and properties that are converted from other brands have initial terms of approximately 10 to 20 years. at the expiration of the initial term, we may have a contractual right or obligation to relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. our franchise agreements with park cannot be extended without our consent. we have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. timeshare hgv, our previously owned timeshare segment, generates revenue from three primary sources: timeshare sales hgv markets and sells timeshare interests previously owned by hilton and third parties. hgv also sources timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. this allows hgv to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers using the hilton grand vacations brand in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property. resort operations hgv manages the hgv club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. hgv generates rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under the hgv club program. hgv also earns revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties. financing hgv provides consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans. hgv's primary product is the marketing and selling of fee simple timeshare interests deeded in perpetuity, developed either by us or by third parties. this ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the hgv club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of club points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the hgv system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to hilton honors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 4,300 resorts included in the rci timeshare vacation exchange network. in addition, hgv operates the hilton club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the hilton new york, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the hgv club. as of december 31, 2016 , hgv managed a global system of 47 resorts and the hgv club and the hilton club had nearly 270,000 members in total. as noted in the "overview" section, on january 3, 2017 , we completed the spin-off of our timeshare business, and these timeshare properties will remain in hilton's system as franchised properties pursuant to a license agreement with hgv. 9 competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor, owner and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public and meeting spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor, owner and operator of hotels with an associated system-wide customer loyalty platform makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, hongkong and shanghai hotels, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, m venpick hotels and resorts and wyndham worldwide corporation. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result, in a negative economic environment the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. the vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employee, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. 10 we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in 104 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws and tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. in addition, our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to additional laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. in addition to our hotel accommodations, we operate a number of laundry facilities located in certain areas where we have multiple properties. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of wastes that we generate, including at locations where such wastes have been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination pursuant to our management or franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and operated properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. insurance u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in certain of our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners. if not participating in our programs, hotel owners must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. non-u.s. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. in addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of hotels owned by such third parties. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks and we believe such risks are prudent for us to assume. our third-party insurance policies provide coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insurance retentions or deductible obligations. we maintain insurance 11 coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers' compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned and leased hotels. in addition, through our captive insurance subsidiary, we participate in a reinsurance arrangement that provides coverage for a certain portion of our deductibles. in general, our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. corporate responsibility the success of our business is linked to the success of communities in which our hotels operate - from the local owners who partner with us to build hotels, to the local talent that operate the hotels, to the local economies and businesses our hotels support through sourcing products serving guests. travel with purpose, our corporate responsibility strategy, is a holistic approach that leverages our global footprint and scale coupled with local insights and partnerships to address global and local challenges. creating shared value for hotel employees, guests, owners, communities and overall business is a strategic priority we strive to achieve by focusing on advancing three priority, material issue areas: creating opportunities - youth opportunity, great place to work, intrapreneurship: we have a passion, and a responsibility to invest in current and future employees. we open doors that help individuals build meaningful job and life skills through the hospitality industry. strengthening communities - skills-based volunteering, human rights, disaster support: we encourage and enable our employees to deliver hospitality to our communities. we are committed to having a positive economic and social impact on the millions of communities and lives we touch. preserving environment - energy, carbon, water, waste, responsible sourcing: as environmental stewards for the wellbeing of people and ecosystems in our communities, we protect the environment through efficient and responsible operations and sourcing. lightstay , our proprietary corporate responsibility performance measurement platform, is a global brand standard that allows us to manage the impact of our hotels on the environment and global community through the measurement, analysis and improvement of our use of natural resources, opportunities created and community service. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced corporate operations in 1946. employees as of december 31, 2016 , more than 169,000 people were employed at our managed, owned, leased and timeshare properties and corporate locations. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 30 percent of our employees globally (or 30 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. 12 item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including energy, food, employee compensation and benefits and insurance; increases in costs due to inflation or other factors that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the quality of services provided by franchisees; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture agreements; cyclical over-building in the hotel industry; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services, including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. 13 macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at our hotels. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; governmental action and uncertainty resulting from u.s. and global political trends, including potential barriers to travel, trade and immigration; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, zika, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) and h1n1 (swine flu); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; and organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased properties. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. 14 the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full service and focused service hotels, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators, home and apartment sharing services and timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater commercial, financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively, or they could offer a type of lodging product that customers find attractive but that we do not offer. competition for management and franchise agreements we compete to enter into management and franchise agreements. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our agreements and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise agreements could be reduced. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us for our services may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events at our hotels and resorts can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity. we also could face legal claims related to negative events, along with resulting adverse publicity. a perceived decline in the quality of our brands or damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 our business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party property owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise agreements, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new and renew management and franchise agreements. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise agreements or enter into new agreements on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise agreements, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. a repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise agreement or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline and limit additional development to further expand our hotel portfolio. if our third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise agreements, as well as our license agreement with hgv, require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands, which include requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise agreements require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a property owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, 16 the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2016 , we had a total of 1,968 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing and obtaining governmental or regulatory approvals. as a result, not every hotel in our development pipeline may develop into a new hotel that enters our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we launched a new upscale brand, tapestry collection by hilton, in january 2017 and a new midscale brand, tru by hilton, in january 2016. we introduced a new brand, canopy by hilton, in october 2014, opened our first curio - a collection by hilton hotel in august 2014 and opened our first home2 suites by hilton hotel in 2011. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states in recent years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the risks resulting from investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. although we recently completed the spin-off of park, we still own or lease real property, which subjects us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; loss in value of real estate due to changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located; increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties and to deliver properties back to landlords in a particular state of repair and condition at the end of a lease term; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with any mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; contingent liabilities that exist after we have exited a property; costs linked to the employment and management of staff to run and operate an owned or leased property; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. 17 the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned or leased properties because we, as the owner or lessee, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned and leased property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed many years ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis, or acts of terrorism; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements, including certain of our iconic and most profitable properties. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non- 18 performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. preparing our financial statements requires us to have access to information regarding the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our joint ventures. any deficiencies in our joint ventures' internal controls over financial reporting may affect our ability to report our financial results accurately or prevent or detect fraud. such deficiencies also could result in restatements of, or other adjustments to, our previously reported or announced operating results, which could diminish investor confidence and reduce the market price for our shares. additionally, if our joint ventures are unable to provide this information for any meaningful period or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to satisfy our financial reporting obligations or timely file our periodic reports. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton honors customer loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. although we are migrating portions of our operations to cloud-based providers, any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we transfer production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 19 cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are difficult to detect for long periods of time, and we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. in november 2015, we announced that we had identified and taken action to eradicate unauthorized malware that targeted payment card information in some point-of-sale systems in our hotels and had determined that specific payment card information was targeted by this malware. we expect we will be subject to additional cyber-attacks in the future and may experience data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other costs or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. in addition, states and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able 20 to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we also may divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns or otherwise fail to achieve the benefits we expect. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email and social media marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws and court or agency interpretation of such laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu general data protection regulation, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our business. if these bookings increase, certain hospitality intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. these hospitality intermediaries also may reduce these bookings by de-ranking our hotels in search results on their platforms, and other online providers may divert business away from our hotels. although our agreements with many hospitality intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites. internet travel intermediaries also have been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual consumers or "transient" business rather than group and convention business, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and convention business. consolidation of internet travel 21 intermediaries, and the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online, by telephone to our call centers or through devices via our mobile application, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton honors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton honors guest loyalty and rewards program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise agreements. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the guest's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton honors arranges with third-party service providers, such as airlines and rail companies, to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton honors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 104 countries and territories around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 20 percent and 22 percent of our revenues for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the effect of disruptions caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; 22 instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as "brexit"); uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues from and the market value of our properties located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the fcpa, as well as trade sanctions administered by the ofac. the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we manage or own in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to or receive funds from persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of blackstone or blackstone's affiliates or, following blackstone's proposed sale of our common stock to hna tourism group co., ltd. ( hna ), hna and hna's affiliates. other affiliates of blackstone or hna have in the past or may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k, which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference herein. disclosure of such activities and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. 23 the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, significant customers, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 30 percent ) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately nine percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage employees. we employ or manage more than 169,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to manage and staff the managed, owned and leased hotels could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have over 5,700 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other intellectual property. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important 24 intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we have granted hgv the right to use certain of our marks and intellectual property in its timeshare business and we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if hgv, a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; limit our ability to develop new intellectual property; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. 25 to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions. however, these hedging agreements may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses vary, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the program ) to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2020, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. 26 the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2006 through december 31, 2010 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton honors guest loyalty and reward program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $874 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. additionally, the irs has notified us of its intention to examine the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 through december 31, 2013. see note 18 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. in addition, the national 27 labor relations board has revised its standard for joint employee relationships, which could increase our risk of being considered a joint employer with our franchisees. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise agreement or negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. our obligations under this settlement expired in march 2015 except that certain managed and franchised hotels that were required to conduct surveys of their facilities remain under an obligation to remove architectural barriers at their facilities through march 15, 2022 and we have an obligation to have an independent consultant to monitor those barrier removal efforts during this period. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects that could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 28 casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic and political conditions; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including puerto rico and egypt, have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits or disputes involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our recent spin-offs we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-offs. although we believe that separating our ownership business and our timeshare business by means of the spin-offs will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our stockholders, the spin-offs may not provide results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. for example, if the statutory and regulatory requirements relating to reits are not met by park, the benefits of spinning off the ownership business may be reduced or may be unavailable to us, our stockholders and stockholders of park. in addition, the costs we incur in connection with, or as a result of, the spin-offs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize. if we do not realize the intended benefits of the spin-offs or if our costs exceed our estimates, we or the businesses that were spun off could suffer a material adverse effect on our or their business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the spin-offs could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received a private letter ruling from the irs on certain issues relevant to qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). although the private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, the continued validity of the private letter ruling will be based upon and subject to the accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the irs by us. further, the private letter ruling is limited to specified aspects of the spin-offs under section 355 of the code and does not represent a determination by the irs that all of the 29 requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock and to us have been satisfied. moreover, if any statement or representation upon which the private letter ruling was based was incorrect or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts that prevailed at the time of the spin-offs, the private letter ruling could be invalidated. the opinion of tax counsel we received in connection with the spin-offs regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the code similarly relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spun-off companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. additionally, recently enacted legislation denies tax-free treatment to a spin-off in which either the distributing corporation or the spun-off corporation is a reit and prevents a distributing corporation or a spun-off corporation from electing reit status for a 10-year period following a tax-free spin-off. under an effective date provision, the legislation does not apply to distributions described in a ruling request initially submitted to the irs before december 7, 2015. because our initial request for the private letter ruling was submitted before that date and because we believe the distribution has been described in that initial request, we believe the legislation does not apply to the spin-off of park. however, no ruling was obtained on that issue and thus no assurance can be given in that regard. in particular, the irs or a court could disagree with our view regarding the effective date provision based on any differences that exist between the description in the ruling request and the actual facts relating to the spin-offs. if the legislation applied to the spin-off of park, either the spin-off would not qualify for tax-free treatment or park would not be eligible to elect reit status for a 10-year period following the spin-off. if the spin-offs and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, the company would be subject to a substantial tax liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-offs were taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of park and hgv would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. park or hgv may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that we have executed as part of the spin-offs. in connection with the spin-offs, we, park and hgv entered into a distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and, as to park, management agreements, and, as to hgv, a license agreement. certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other following the spin-offs. we are relying on park and hgv to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. in addition, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us, park and hgv and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to park and to hgv, particularly if park or hgv were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. the impact of any of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could cause reputational harm and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us for certain liabilities. these indemnities may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by park and hgv, and park and hgv may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us with respect to such parties' assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or other agreements related to the spin-offs. there can be no assurance that the indemnities from each of park and hgv will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities. third parties also could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that park and hgv have agreed to assume. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from park or hgv any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are required to indemnify park or hgv in connection with the spin-offs, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, which could negatively affect our financial results. pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs and certain other agreements among park and hgv and us, we agreed to indemnify each of park and hgv from certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide park and/or hgv may be significant and could negatively affect our business. 30 risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2016 , our total indebtedness, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs and discounts, was approximately $10.9 billion , including $696 million of timeshare debt, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt and timeshare debt for the years ending december 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, were $179 million , $110 million and $543 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures or dividends to stockholders and to pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indentures that govern our senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; 31 enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after june 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 30 percent of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.0 to 1.0. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to pay dividends to our stockholders will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. finally, our ability to raise additional equity capital may be restricted by the stockholders agreement we entered into with hgv and certain entities affiliated with blackstone that is intended to preserve the tax-free status of the spin-offs of park and hgv. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding three risk factors would increase. 32 risks related to ownership of our common stock the interests of certain of our stockholders may conflict with ours or yours in the future. blackstone and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 40.3 percent of our common stock as of december 31, 2016 . hna has agreed to acquire 25 percent of our outstanding common stock from blackstone. moreover, under our bylaws and the stockholders' agreement with blackstone, for so long as it retains specified levels of ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by blackstone. if blackstone's proposed sale of our common stock to hna closes, hna will have specified board designation rights, as described in our current report on form 8-k filed on october 24, 2016. thus, for so long as blackstone and hna continue to own specified percentages of our stock, each will be able to influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, during that period of time, each of blackstone and hna will have influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. for example, for so long as blackstone or hna continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, blackstone or hna may be able to influence whether or not a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors occurs. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. each of blackstone and hna and its respective affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in the hospitality industry. in the ordinary course of their business activities, each of blackstone and hna and their respective affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with ours or those of our stockholders. for example, blackstone owns interests in extended stay america, inc., la quinta holdings inc., park hotels &amp; resorts inc. and hilton grand vacations inc., and certain other investments in the hospitality industry and may pursue ventures that compete directly or indirectly with us. hna acquired carlson hotels in december 2016 and has an interest in nh hotel group. in addition, affiliates of blackstone and hna directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel development projects, that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of blackstone, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his or her director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. under the company's stockholders agreement with hna, the company agreed to renounce any interest or expectancy, or right to be offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity or corporate opportunity presented to hna or its affiliates. blackstone or hna also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may be unavailable to us. in addition, blackstone or hna may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their respective investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we may change our dividend policy at any time. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by certain investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. in addition, blackstone has pledged substantially all of the shares of our common stock held by it pursuant to a margin loan agreement and any foreclosure upon those shares could result in sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, which could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. pursuant to registration rights agreements, blackstone and certain management stockholders have, and hna will have, the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares represented approximately 41.2 percent of our outstanding common stock as of 33 december 31, 2016 . these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which blackstone ceases to beneficially own at least 40 percent of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office, which would be the case upon closing of the hna transaction; these provisions provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. 34 item 2. properties hotel properties owned or controlled hotels as of december 31, 2016 , we owned a majority or controlling financial interest in the following 56 hotels, representing 28,931 rooms. property location rooms ownership waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts waldorf astoria orlando (1) orlando, fl, usa 498 100% casa marina, a waldorf astoria resort (1) key west, fl, usa 311 100% the reach, a waldorf astoria resort (1) key west, fl, usa 150 100% hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton hawaiian village waikiki beach resort (1) honolulu, hi, usa 2,860 100% hilton new york (1) new york, ny, usa 1,929 100% hilton san francisco union square (1) san francisco, ca, usa 1,919 100% hilton new orleans riverside (1) new orleans, la, usa 1,622 100% hilton chicago (1) chicago, il, usa 1,544 100% hilton waikoloa village (1) waikoloa, hi, usa 1,243 100% hilton parc 55 (1) san francisco, ca, usa 1,024 100% hilton orlando bonnet creek (1) orlando, fl, usa 1,001 100% hilton chicago o'hare airport (1) chicago, il, usa 860 100% hilton orlando lake buena vista (1) orlando, fl, usa 814 100% caribe hilton (1) san juan, puerto rico 747 100% hilton boston logan airport (1) boston, ma, usa 599 100% pointe hilton squaw peak resort (1) phoenix, az, usa 563 100% hilton miami airport (1) miami, fl, usa 508 100% hilton atlanta airport (1) atlanta, ga, usa 507 100% hilton o paulo morumbi (1) o paulo, brazil 503 100% hilton mclean tysons corner (1) mclean, va, usa 458 100% hilton seattle airport &amp; conference center (1) seattle, wa, usa 396 100% hilton oakland airport (1) oakland, ca, usa 360 100% hilton paris orly airport paris, france 340 100% hilton durban (1) durban, south africa 327 100% hilton new orleans airport (1) kenner, la, usa 317 100% hilton short hills (1) short hills, nj, usa 304 100% hilton blackpool (1) blackpool, united kingdom 278 100% hilton rotterdam (1) rotterdam, netherlands 254 100% hilton chicago/oak brook suites (1) oakbrook terrace, il, usa 211 100% hilton belfast (1) belfast, united kingdom 198 100% hilton london angel islington (1) london, united kingdom 188 100% hilton edinburgh grosvenor (1) edinburgh, united kingdom 184 100% hilton coylumbridge (1) coylumbridge, united kingdom 175 100% hilton bath city (1) bath, united kingdom 173 100% hilton odawara resort &amp; spa odawara city, japan 173 100% hilton nuremberg (1) nuremberg, germany 152 100% hilton milton keynes (1) milton keynes, united kingdom 138 100% hilton belfast templepatrick golf &amp; country club templepatrick, united kingdom 129 100% hilton sheffield (1) sheffield, united kingdom 128 100% curio - a collection by hilton juniper hotel cupertino, curio collection by hilton (1) cupertino, ca, usa 224 100% doubletree by hilton doubletree by hilton washington dc crystal city (1) arlington, va, usa 627 100% doubletree by hilton san jose (1) san jose, ca, usa 505 100% doubletree by hilton ontario airport (1) ontario, ca, usa 482 67% doubletree by hilton spokane city center (1) spokane, wa, usa 375 10% 35 property location rooms ownership the fess parker santa barbara hotel a doubletree by hilton resort (1) santa barbara, ca, usa 360 50% embassy suites by hilton embassy suites by hilton parsippany (1) parsippany, nj, usa 274 100% embassy suites by hilton kansas city plaza (1) kansas city, mo, usa 266 100% embassy suites by hilton austin downtown town lake (1) austin, tx, usa 259 100% embassy suites by hilton atlanta perimeter center (1) atlanta, ga, usa 241 100% embassy suites by hilton san rafael marin county (1) san rafael, ca, usa 235 100% embassy suites by hilton kansas city overland park (1) overland park, ks, usa 199 100% embassy suites by hilton washington dc georgetown (1) washington, d.c., usa 197 100% embassy suites by hilton phoenix airport (1) phoenix, az, usa 182 100% hilton garden inn hilton garden inn lax el segundo (1) el segundo, ca, usa 162 100% hilton garden inn chicago/oakbrook terrace (1) oakbrook terrace, il, usa 128 100% hampton by hilton hampton inn &amp; suites memphis shady grove (1) memphis, tn, usa 130 100% ____________ (1) owned by park effective january 3, 2017 as a result of the completion of the spin-offs. joint venture hotels as of december 31, 2016 , we had a minority or noncontrolling financial interest in and operated the following 15 properties, representing 7,531 rooms. we have a right of first refusal to purchase additional equity interests in certain of these joint ventures. we manage each of the hotels for the entity owning or leasing the hotel. property location rooms ownership waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts waldorf astoria chicago chicago, il, usa 215 12% conrad hotels &amp; resorts conrad cairo cairo, egypt 614 10% conrad dublin (1) dublin, ireland 192 48% hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton orlando (1) orlando, fl, usa 1,417 20% hilton san diego bayfront (1) san diego, ca, usa 1,190 25% hilton tokyo bay urayasu-shi, japan 819 24% hilton berlin (1) berlin, germany 601 40% capital hilton (1) washington, d.c., usa 550 25% hilton nagoya nagoya, japan 460 24% hilton la jolla torrey pines (1) la jolla, ca, usa 394 25% hilton mauritius resort &amp; spa flic-en-flac, mauritius 193 20% hilton imperial dubrovnik dubrovnik, croatia 147 18% doubletree by hilton doubletree by hilton las vegas airport (1) las vegas, nv, usa 190 50% embassy suites by hilton embassy suites by hilton alexandria old town (1) alexandria, va, usa 288 50% embassy suites by hilton secaucus meadowlands (1) secaucus, nj, usa 261 50% ____________ (1) ownership interest in such property was transferred to park on january 3, 2017 in connection with the spin-offs. 36 leased hotels as of december 31, 2016 , we leased the following 70 hotels, representing 21,254 rooms. property location rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts rome cavalieri, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts rome, italy 370 waldorf astoria amsterdam amsterdam, netherlands 93 hilton hotels &amp; resorts hilton tokyo (2) (shinjuku-ku) tokyo, japan 821 ramses hilton cairo, egypt 771 hilton london kensington london, united kingdom 601 hilton vienna vienna, austria 579 hilton tel aviv tel aviv, israel 560 hilton osaka (2) osaka, japan 527 hilton istanbul bosphorus istanbul, turkey 500 hilton salt lake city (1) salt lake city, ut, usa 499 hilton munich park munich, germany 484 hilton munich city munich, germany 480 london hilton on park lane london, united kingdom 453 hilton diagonal mar barcelona barcelona, spain 433 hilton mainz mainz, germany 431 hilton trinidad &amp; conference centre port of spain, trinidad 418 hilton london heathrow airport london, united kingdom 398 hilton izmir izmir, turkey 380 hilton addis ababa addis ababa, ethiopia 372 hilton vienna danube waterfront vienna, austria 367 hilton frankfurt frankfurt, germany 342 hilton brighton metropole brighton, united kingdom 340 hilton sandton sandton, south africa 329 hilton milan milan, italy 320 hilton brisbane brisbane, australia 319 hilton glasgow glasgow, united kingdom 319 ankara hilton ankara, turkey 309 adana hilton adana, turkey 308 the waldorf hilton, london london, united kingdom 298 hilton cologne cologne, germany 296 hilton stockholm slussen stockholm, sweden 289 hilton nairobi (2) nairobi, kenya 287 hilton madrid airport madrid, spain 284 parmelia hilton perth parmelia perth, australia 284 hilton london canary wharf london, united kingdom 282 hilton amsterdam amsterdam, netherlands 271 hilton newcastle gateshead newcastle upon tyne, united kingdom 254 hilton vienna plaza vienna, austria 254 hilton bonn bonn, germany 252 hilton london tower bridge london, united kingdom 246 hilton manchester airport manchester, united kingdom 230 hilton bracknell bracknell, united kingdom 215 hilton antwerp old town antwerp, belgium 210 hilton reading reading, united kingdom 210 hilton leeds city leeds, united kingdom 208 hilton watford watford, united kingdom 200 mersin hilton mersin, turkey 186 hilton warwick/stratford-upon-avon warwick, united kingdom 181 hilton leicester leicester, united kingdom 179 hilton innsbruck innsbruck, austria 176 hilton nottingham nottingham, united kingdom 176 hilton st. anne's manor, bracknell wokingham, united kingdom 170 37 property location rooms hilton london croydon croydon, united kingdom 168 hilton london green park london, united kingdom 163 hilton cobham cobham, united kingdom 158 hilton paris la defense paris, france 153 hilton east midlands airport derby, united kingdom 152 hilton maidstone maidstone, united kingdom 146 hilton avisford park, arundel arundel, united kingdom 140 hilton northampton northampton, united kingdom 139 hilton london hyde park london, united kingdom 136 hilton york york, united kingdom 131 hilton mainz city mainz, germany 127 hilton parksa istanbul istanbul, turkey 117 hilton puckrup hall, tewkesbury tewkesbury, united kingdom 112 hilton glasgow grosvenor glasgow, united kingdom 97 doubletree by hilton doubletree by hilton seattle airport (1) seattle, wa, usa 850 doubletree by hilton san diego mission valley (1) san diego, ca, usa 300 doubletree by hilton sonoma wine country (1) rohnert park, ca, usa 245 doubletree by hilton durango (1) durango, co, usa 159 ____________ (1) leased by park effective january 3, 2017 in connection with the spin-offs. (2) we own a majority or controlling financial interest, but less than a 100 percent interest, in entities that lease these properties. corporate headquarters and regional offices our corporate headquarters are located at 7930 jones branch drive, mclean, virginia 22102. these offices consist of approximately 223,000 square feet of leased space. the lease for this property expires on december 31, 2023, with options to renew and increase the rentable square footage. we also have corporate offices in watford, england (europe), dubai, united arab emirates (middle east and africa) and singapore (asia pacific). additionally, to support our operations, we have our hilton honors and other commercial services office in addison, texas, the hilton grand vacations headquarters in orlando, florida and timeshare sales offices in the u.s. in hawaii, nevada, new york, florida, south carolina, utah and washington, d.c. and outside the u.s. in london, scotland, japan and south korea. other non-operating real estate holdings include a centralized operations center located in memphis, tennessee, and our hilton reservations and customer care offices in carrollton, texas and tampa, florida. we believe that our existing office properties are in good condition and are sufficient and suitable for the conduct of our business. in the event we need to expand our operations, we believe that suitable space will be available on commercially reasonable terms. item 3. legal proceedings we are involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums, including proceedings involving tort and other general liability claims, employee claims, consumer protection claims and claims related to our management of certain hotel properties. most occurrences involving liability, claims of negligence and employees are covered by insurance with solvent insurance carriers. for those matters not covered by insurance, which include commercial matters, we recognize a liability when we believe the loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. we believe we have adequate reserves against such matters. we currently believe that the ultimate outcome of such lawsuits and proceedings will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. however, depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations in a particular period. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 38 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information and dividends our common stock began trading publicly on the nyse under the symbol "hlt" on december 12, 2013 . as of december 31, 2016 , there were approximately 35 holders of record of our common stock. this stockholder figure does not include a substantially greater number of holders whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers and other financial institutions. on january 3, 2017 , we completed a 1-for-3 reverse stock split of our outstanding common stock. we declared regular quarterly cash dividends beginning in the third quarter of 2015 and expect to continue paying regular dividends on a quarterly basis. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. because we are a holding company and have no direct operations, we will only be able to pay dividends from funds we receive from our subsidiaries. the following table presents the high and low sales prices for our common stock as reported by the nyse and the cash dividends we declared for the last two fiscal years, adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split, but not the spin-offs: dividends stock price declared per high low share fiscal year ended december 31, 2016 first quarter $ 68.67 $ 48.48 $ 0.21 second quarter 70.80 60.75 0.21 third quarter 73.29 66.51 0.21 fourth quarter 83.85 65.40 0.21 fiscal year ended december 31, 2015 first quarter $ 90.18 $ 73.08 $ second quarter 94.80 81.90 third quarter 85.56 62.79 0.21 fourth quarter 78.81 62.73 0.21 39 performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return since december 12, 2013 with the s&amp;p 500 index (" s&amp;p 500 ") and the s&amp;p hotels, resorts &amp; cruise lines index ("s&amp;p hotel"). the graph assumes that the value of the investment in our common stock and each index was $100 on december 12, 2013 and that all dividends and other distributions were reinvested. 12/12/2013 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 hilton $ 100.00 $ 103.49 $ 121.35 $ 99.53 $ 128.87 s&amp;p 500 100.00 104.10 115.96 115.12 126.10 s&amp;p hotel 100.00 109.17 132.84 135.47 142.45 recent sales of unregistered securities none. issuer purchases of equity securities none. 40 item 6. selected financial data we derived the selected statement of operations data for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 and the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. we derived the selected statement of operations data for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 and the selected balance sheet data as of december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this annual report on form 10-k. our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period. the selected consolidated financial data below should be read together with the consolidated financial statements including the related notes thereto, and "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (in millions, except per share data) statement of operations data: total revenues $ 11,663 $ 11,272 $ 10,502 $ 9,735 $ 9,276 operating income 1,861 2,071 1,673 1,102 1,100 net income 364 1,416 682 460 359 net income attributable to hilton stockholders 348 1,404 673 415 352 earnings per share (1) : basic $ 1.06 $ 4.27 $ 2.05 $ 1.35 $ 1.15 diluted $ 1.05 $ 4.26 $ 2.05 $ 1.35 $ 1.15 cash dividends declared per share $ 0.84 $ 0.42 $ $ $ december 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (in millions) selected balance sheet data: total assets (2) $ 26,211 $ 25,622 $ 26,001 $ 26,410 $ 27,043 long-term debt (2)(3)(4) 10,118 9,951 10,943 11,899 15,972 timeshare debt (2)(3) 694 502 625 672 ____________ (1) per share amounts used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share were adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split. (2) all periods presented reflect the adoption of accounting standards updates ("asu") no. 2015-03 and no. 2015-15. (3) includes current maturities and is net of unamortized deferred financing costs and discounts. (4) includes capital lease obligations and debt of consolidated variable interest entities ("vies"). 41 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. overview our business hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 4,922 hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising 804,097 rooms in 104 countries and territories as of december 31, 2016 . our premier brand portfolio includes: our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton; our full service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton and embassy suites by hilton; our focused service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, tru by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton; our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations; and our new full service brand, tapestry collection by hilton, launched in january 2017. we had approximately 60 million members in our award-winning customer loyalty program, hilton honors, as of december 31, 2016 . recent events on january 3, 2017 , we completed the previously announced spin-offs of a portfolio of hotels and resorts, as well as our timeshare business, into two independent, publicly traded companies: park and hgv, respectively. the spin-offs were completed via a distribution to each of hilton's stockholders of record, as of the close of business on december 15, 2016, of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of park and hgv. each hilton stockholder received one share of park common stock for every five shares of hilton common stock and one share of hgv common stock for every ten shares of hilton common stock. both park and hgv have their common stock listed on the nyse under the symbols "pk" and "hgv," respectively. unless otherwise stated, disclosures herein reflect the results of hilton, without giving effect to the spin-offs, for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . see item 1a. risk factors and note 29 : " subsequent events " in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional discussion. refer to pro forma financial information included in our current report on form 8-k filed with the sec on january 4, 2017 for the historical results of operations and performance of hilton giving effect to the spin-offs, and refer to the registration statements on form 10 of park and hgv and their subsequent periodic and other reports filed with the sec for their respective historical financial results. additionally, refer to our press release on our fourth quarter and full year 2016 results for our pro forma financial information for the year ended december 31, 2016 included in our current report on form 8-k filed with the sec on february 15, 2017. on january 3, 2017 , we completed a 1-for-3 reverse stock split of hilton's outstanding common stock. the authorized number of shares of common stock was reduced from 30,000,000,000 to 10,000,000,000, and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock remains 3,000,000,000. all share and share-related information presented in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements, have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the decreased number of shares resulting from the reverse stock split. in january 2017, we launched our newest brand, tapestry collection by hilton, which is a curated portfolio of original hotels in the upscale hotel segment that have recognizable features distinct to each hotel. tapestry guests are looking for new experiences and choose to stay where they can expect to never see the same thing twice. the first property is expected to open by the third quarter of 2017 . segments and regions during the periods covered by this report, management analyzed our operations and business by both operating segments and geographic regions, which consisted of three reportable segments that are based on similar products or services: ownership; management and franchise; and timeshare. the ownership segment primarily derives earnings from providing hotel room rentals, food and beverage sales and other services at our owned and leased hotels. the management and franchise segment provides services, which include hotel management and licensing of our brands to franchisees, as well as property management at timeshare properties. this segment generates its revenue from management and franchise fees charged to hotel owners, including our owned and leased hotels, and to homeowners' associations at timeshare properties. as a manager of hotels and timeshare resorts, we typically are responsible for supervising or operating the property in exchange for management fees. as a franchisor of hotels, we charge franchise fees in exchange for the use of one of our brand names and related commercial services, such as our reservation system, marketing and information technology services. the timeshare segment consists of 42 multi-unit vacation ownership properties and generates revenue by marketing and selling timeshare intervals owned by us and third parties, resort operations and providing consumer financing for the timeshare interests. geographically, management conducts business through three distinct geographic regions: the americas; europe, middle east and africa ("emea"); and asia pacific. the americas region includes north america, south america and central america, including all caribbean nations. although the u.s. is included in the americas, it represents a significant portion of our system-wide hotel rooms, which was 75 percent as of december 31, 2016 ; therefore, the u.s. is often analyzed separately and apart from the americas geographic region and, as such, it is presented separately within the analysis herein. the emea region includes europe, which represents the western-most peninsula of eurasia stretching from ireland in the west to russia in the east, and the middle east and africa ("mea"), which represents the middle east region and all african nations, including the indian ocean island nations. europe and mea are often analyzed separately by management. the asia pacific region includes the eastern and southeastern nations of asia, as well as india, australia, new zealand and the pacific island nations. refer to "part i item 2. properties" for the specific properties and respective locations of the properties that were distributed to park in connection with the spin-offs. system growth and pipeline we continue to expand our global footprint and fee-based business. as we enter into new management and franchise contracts, we expand our business with minimal or no capital investment by us as the manager or franchisor, as the capital required to build and maintain hotels is typically provided by the third-party owner of the respective hotel that we contract with to provide management or franchise services. additionally, prior to approving the addition of new hotels to our management and franchise development pipeline, we evaluate the economic viability of the hotel based on the geographic location, the credit quality of the third-party owner and other factors. as a result, by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements with third-party owners, we expect to achieve a higher overall return on invested capital. as of december 31, 2016 , we had a total of 1,968 hotels in our development pipeline, representing approximately 310,000 rooms under construction or approved for development throughout 96 countries and territories, including 32 countries and territories where we do not currently have any open hotels. over 99 percent of the rooms in the pipeline are within our management and franchise segment. of the rooms in the pipeline, over 159,000 rooms, or more than half of the pipeline, were located outside the u.s. as of december 31, 2016 , over 157,000 rooms, representing approximately half of our development pipeline, were under construction. we do not consider any individual development project to be material to us. principal components and factors affecting our results of operations revenues principal components during the periods presented in this report, we primarily derived our revenues from the following sources: owned and leased hotels. represents revenues derived from hotel operations, including room rentals, food and beverage sales and other ancillary goods and services. these revenues are primarily derived from two categories of customers: transient and group. transient guests are individual travelers who are traveling for business or leisure. group guests are traveling for group events that reserve rooms for meetings, conferences or social functions sponsored by associations, corporate, social, military, educational, religious or other organizations. group business usually includes a block of room accommodations, as well as other ancillary services, such as meeting facilities and catering and banquet services. a majority of our food and beverage sales and other ancillary services are provided to customers who are also occupying rooms at our hotel properties. as a result, occupancy affects all components of our owned and leased hotel revenues. management and franchise fees and other. represents revenues derived from management fees earned from hotels and timeshare properties managed by us, franchise fees received in connection with the franchising of our brands and other revenue generated by the incidental support of hotel operations for owned, leased, managed and franchised properties and other rental income. terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base fee, which is typically a percentage of each hotel's gross revenue, and in some cases an incentive fee, which is based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. management fees from timeshare properties are generally a fixed amount as stated in the management agreement. outside of the u.s., our fees are often more dependent on hotel 43 profitability measures, either through a single management fee structure where the entire fee is based on a profitability measure, or because our two-tier fee structure is more heavily weighted toward the incentive fee than the base fee. additionally, we receive one-time upfront fees upon execution of certain management contracts, as well as a monthly fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. in general, the hotel owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses costs we incur in operating the hotel. under our franchise agreements, franchisees pay us franchise fees which consist of initial application and initiation fees for new hotels entering the system and monthly royalty fees, generally calculated as a percentage of room revenues. royalty fees for our full service brands may also include a percentage of gross food and beverage revenues and other revenues, where applicable. in addition to the franchise application and royalty fees, franchisees also generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the cost of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation system expenses; and quality assurance program costs. we also earn fees when certain franchise agreements are terminated early or there is a change in ownership. timeshare. represents revenues derived from the sale and financing of timeshare intervals and revenues from enrollments and other fees, rentals of timeshare units, food and beverage sales and other ancillary services at our timeshare properties, which we refer to as resort operations. additionally, in recent years, we began a transformation of our timeshare business to a capital light model in which third-party timeshare owners and developers provided capital for development while we acted as the sales and marketing agent and property manager. through these transactions, we received a sales and marketing commission and branding fees based on the total sales price of the timeshare interval, recurring fees to operate the homeowners' associations and revenues from resort operations. other revenues from managed and franchised properties. these revenues represent the payroll and related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, as well as certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, marketing expenses and other expenses associated with our brands and shared services that are contractually either reimbursed to us by the property owners or paid from fees collected in advance from these properties when the costs are incurred. we have no legal responsibility for employees at franchised properties. the corresponding expenses are presented as other expenses from managed and franchised properties in our consolidated statements of operations resulting in no effect on operating income or net income. factors affecting our revenues the following factors affected the revenues we derived from our operations during the periods presented: consumer demand and global economic conditions . consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence and adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased operations and the amount of management and franchise fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties. further, competition for hotel guests and the supply of hotel services affect our ability to sustain or increase rates charged to customers at our hotels. also, declines in hotel profitability during an economic downturn directly affect the incentive portion of our management fees, which is based on hotel profit measures. our timeshare segment also is linked to cycles in the general economy, consumer discretionary spending and availability of financing. as a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles have historically subjected and could in the future subject our revenues to significant volatility. agreements with third-party owners and franchisees and relationships with developers . we depend on our long-term management and franchise agreements with third-party owners and franchisees for a significant portion of our management and franchise fee revenues. the success and sustainability of our management and franchise business depends on our ability to perform under our management and franchise agreements and maintain good relationships with third-party owners and franchisees. our relationships with these third parties also generate new relationships with developers and opportunities for property development that can support our growth. growth and maintenance of our hotel system and earning fees relating to hotels in the pipeline are dependent on the ability of developers and owners to access capital for the development, maintenance and renovation of properties. we believe that we have good relationships with our third-party owners, franchisees and developers and are committed to the continued growth and 44 development of these relationships. these relationships exist with a diverse group of owners, franchisees and developers and are not significantly concentrated with any particular third party. additionally, we entered into sales and marketing agreements to sell timeshare intervals on behalf of third-party developers. we relied on these relationships to expand our timeshare interval supply without deploying capital for asset construction. expenses principal components we primarily incurred the following expenses during the periods presented: owned and leased hotels. reflects the operating expenses of our consolidated owned and leased hotels, including room expense, food and beverage costs, other support costs and property expenses. room expense includes compensation costs for housekeeping, laundry and front desk staff and supply costs for guest room amenities and laundry. food and beverage costs include costs for wait and kitchen staff and food and beverage products. other support expenses consist of costs associated with property-level management, utilities, sales and marketing, operating hotel spas, telephones, parking and other guest recreation, entertainment and services. property expenses include property taxes, repairs and maintenance, rent and insurance. timeshare . includes the cost of inventory sold during the period, sales and marketing expenses, resort operations expenses and other overhead expenses associated with our timeshare business. depreciation and amortization. these are non-cash expenses that primarily consist of depreciation of fixed assets such as buildings, furniture, fixtures and equipment at our consolidated owned and leased hotels and certain corporate assets, as well as amortization of our management and franchise intangibles and capitalized software. general, administrative and other expenses. consists primarily of compensation expense for our corporate staff and personnel supporting our business segments (including divisional offices that support our management and franchise segment), professional fees (including consulting, audit and legal fees), travel and entertainment expenses, bad debt expenses for uncollected management, franchise and other fees, contractual performance obligations and office administrative and related expenses. expenses incurred by our supply management business, laundry facilities and other ancillary businesses are also included in general, administrative and other expenses. impairment losses. we hold significant amounts of goodwill, amortizing and non-amortizing intangible assets and long-lived assets. we evaluate these assets for impairment as further discussed in " critical accounting policies and estimates." these evaluations have resulted in impairment losses for certain of these assets based on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding the assets and our estimates of fair value. based on economic conditions or other factors at a property-specific or company-wide level, we may be required to take additional impairment losses to reflect further declines in our asset values. other expenses from managed and franchised properties. these expenses represent the payroll and related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, as well as certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, marketing expenses and other expenses associated with our brands and shared services that are contractually either reimbursed to us by the property owners or paid from fees collected in advance from these properties when the costs are incurred. we have no legal responsibility for employees at franchised properties. the corresponding revenues are presented as other revenues from managed and franchised properties in our consolidated statements of operations resulting in no effect on operating income or net income. factors affecting our costs and expenses the following are principal factors that affect the costs and expenses we incur in the course of our operations: fixed expenses. many of the expenses associated with owning, leasing, managing and franchising hotels and timeshare resorts are relatively fixed. these expenses include personnel costs, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities. if we are unable to decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels and other properties decreases, the resulting decline in our revenues can have an adverse effect on our net cash flow, margins 45 and profits. this effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth. economic downturns generally affect the results of our ownership segment more significantly than the results of our management and franchising segment due to the high fixed costs associated with operating an owned or leased hotel. the effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts is limited by the amount of fixed costs inherent in our business. as a result, we may not be able to offset revenue reductions through cost cutting. employees at some of our owned and leased hotels are parties to collective bargaining agreements that may also limit our ability to make timely staffing or labor changes in response to declining revenues. in addition, any efforts to reduce costs, or to defer or cancel capital improvements, could adversely affect the economic value of our hotels and brands. we have taken steps to reduce our fixed costs to levels we believe are appropriate to maximize profitability and respond to market conditions without jeopardizing the overall customer experience or the value of our hotels or brands. also, a significant portion of our costs to support our timeshare business relates to direct sales and marketing of these units. in periods of decreased demand for timeshare intervals, we may be unable to reduce our sales and marketing expenses quickly enough to prevent a deterioration of our profit margins on our timeshare business. changes in depreciation and amortization expense. changes in depreciation expense may be driven by renovations of existing hotels, acquisition or development of new hotels, the disposition of existing hotels through sale or closure or changes in estimates of the useful lives of our assets. as we place new assets into service, we will be required to recognize additional depreciation expense on those assets. additionally, we capitalize costs associated with certain software development projects, and as those projects are completed and placed into service, amortization expense will increase. other items effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations significant portions of our operations are conducted in functional currencies other than our reporting currency, which is the u.s. dollar ("usd"), and we have assets and liabilities denominated in a variety of foreign currencies. as a result, we are required to translate those results, assets and liabilities from the functional currency into usd at market based exchange rates for each reporting period. when comparing our results of operations between periods, there may be material portions of the changes in our revenues or expenses that are derived from fluctuations in exchange rates experienced between those periods. seasonality the lodging industry is seasonal in nature. however, the periods during which our hotels experience higher or lower levels of demand vary from property to property and depend upon location, type of property and competitive mix within the specific location. based on historical results, we generally expect our revenue to be lower during the first calendar quarter of each year than during each of the three subsequent quarters. key business and financial metrics used by management comparable hotels we define our comparable hotels as those that: (i) were active and operating in our system for at least one full calendar year as of the end of the current period, and open january 1st of the previous year; (ii) have not undergone a change in brand or ownership during the current or comparable periods reported; and (iii) have not sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, undergone large-scale capital projects or for which comparable results are not available. of th e 4,875 hotels in our system as of december 31, 2016 , 3,740 have been classified as comparable hotels. our 1,135 non-comparable hotels included 135 properties, or approximately three percent of the total hotels in our system, that were removed from the comparable group during the year because they sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, underwent large-scale capital projects or comparable results were not available. of the 4,565 hotels in our system as of december 31, 2015 , 3,624 were classified as comparable hotels for the year ended december 31, 2015 . occupancy occupancy represents the total number of room nights sold divided by the total number of room nights available at a hotel or group of hotels. occupancy measures the utilization of our hotels' available capacity. management uses occupancy to gauge demand at a specific hotel or group of hotels in a given period. occupancy levels also help us determine achievable adr levels as demand for hotel rooms increases or decreases. 46 adr adr represents hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period. adr measures average room price attained by a hotel and adr trends provide useful information concerning the pricing environment and the nature of the customer base of a hotel or group of hotels. adr is a commonly used performance measure in the industry, and we use adr to assess pricing levels that we are able to generate by type of customer, as changes in rates have a different effect on overall revenues and incremental profitability than changes in occupancy, as described above. revpar we calculate revpar by dividing hotel room revenue by total number of room nights available to guests for a given period. we consider revpar to be a meaningful indicator of our performance as it provides a metric correlated to two primary and key drivers of operations at a hotel or group of hotels: occupancy and adr. revpar is also a useful indicator in measuring performance over comparable periods for comparable hotels. references to revpar, adr and occupancy are presented on a comparable basis and references to revpar and adr are presented on a currency neutral basis (all periods use the same exchange rates), unless otherwise noted. ebitda and adjusted ebitda for a discussion of our definition of adjusted ebitda, see note 23 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda and adjusted ebitda are not recognized terms under u.s. gaap and should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or other measures of financial performance or liquidity derived in accordance with u.s. gaap. in addition, our definitions of ebitda and adjusted ebitda may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. we believe that ebitda and adjusted ebitda provide useful information to investors about us and our financial condition and results of operations for the following reasons: (i) these measures are among the measures used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance and make day-to-day operating decisions; and (ii) these measures are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties as a common performance measure to compare results or estimate valuations across companies in our industry. additionally, these measures exclude certain items that can vary widely across different industries and among competitors within our industry. for instance, interest expense and income tax expense are dependent on company specifics, including, among other things, our capital structure and operating jurisdictions, respectively, and, therefore could vary significantly across companies. depreciation and amortization are dependent upon company policies, including the method of acquiring and depreciating assets and the useful lives that are used. for adjusted ebitda, we also exclude items such as: (i) share-based compensation expense, as this could vary widely among companies due to the different plans in place and the usage of them; (ii) furniture, fixtures and equipment ("ff&amp;e") replacement reserve to be consistent with the treatment of ff&amp;e for its owned and leased hotels where it is capitalized and depreciated over the life of the ff&amp;e; and (iii) other items that are not core to our operations and are not reflective of our performance. ebitda and adjusted ebitda have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered either in isolation or as a substitute for net income (loss), cash flow or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under u.s. gaap. some of these limitations are: ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect our interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our indebtedness; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect our tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect the effect on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; 47 although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and ebitda and adjusted ebitda do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and other companies in our industry may calculate ebitda and adjusted ebitda differently, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures. because of these limitations, ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as discretionary cash available to us to reinvest in the growth of our business or as measures of cash that will be available to us to meet our obligations. results of operations year ended december 31, 2016 compared with year ended december 31, 2015 the hotel operating statistics for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2016 2016 vs. 2015 owned and leased hotels occupancy 78.6 % (0.9 )% pts. adr $ 185.18 1.4 % revpar $ 145.49 0.3 % managed and franchised hotels occupancy 74.6 % % pts. adr $ 139.31 1.9 % revpar $ 103.92 2.0 % system-wide occupancy 75.0 % % pts. adr $ 143.63 1.9 % revpar $ 107.65 1.8 % 48 the hotel operating statistics by region for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2016 2016 vs. 2015 u.s. occupancy 75.9 % (0.1 )% pts. adr $ 143.75 2.0 % revpar $ 109.14 1.8 % americas (excluding u.s.) occupancy 72.3 % % pts. adr $ 122.05 4.2 % revpar $ 88.22 4.2 % europe occupancy 73.9 % (0.7 )% pts. adr $ 146.04 2.0 % revpar $ 107.95 1.1 % mea occupancy 63.1 % (3.3 )% pts. adr $ 166.26 3.6 % revpar $ 104.94 (1.5 )% asia pacific occupancy 71.5 % 3.8 % pts. adr $ 145.75 (2.1 )% revpar $ 104.26 3.5 % in 2016, we experienced system-wide revpar growth from continued adr growth at both of our hotel segments. regionally, the u.s., americas and europe all experienced revpar growth as a result of adr growth, with americas outpacing all other regions, driven by strength in canada and mexico. the asia pacific increase in revpar was driven by increased occupancy, particularly in china. mea performance continued to be negatively affected by geopolitical and terrorism concerns, resulting in a decrease in occupancy. year ended december 31, 2015 compared with year ended december 31, 2014 the hotel operating statistics for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2015 2015 vs. 2014 owned and leased hotels occupancy 79.1 % 1.3 % pts. adr $ 184.78 2.5 % revpar $ 146.19 4.2 % managed and franchised hotels occupancy 75.1 % 1.3 % pts. adr $ 136.60 3.6 % revpar $ 102.61 5.5 % system-wide occupancy 75.4 % 1.3 % pts. adr $ 141.19 3.6 % revpar $ 106.51 5.4 % 49 the hotel operating statistics by region for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: year ended variance december 31, 2015 2015 vs. 2014 u.s. occupancy 76.2 % 1.0 % pts. adr $ 140.31 3.8 % revpar $ 106.89 5.2 % americas (excluding u.s.) occupancy 73.1 % 1.2 % pts. adr $ 126.14 4.8 % revpar $ 92.18 6.7 % europe occupancy 77.0 % 1.7 % pts. adr $ 154.81 3.7 % revpar $ 119.24 6.1 % mea occupancy 66.0 % 2.3 % pts. adr $ 153.91 (1.9 )% revpar $ 101.53 1.7 % asia pacific occupancy 68.8 % 5.0 % pts. adr $ 140.82 1.3 % revpar $ 96.85 9.3 % all world regions experienced revpar growth in 2015 with nearly all growing in occupancy and adr. asia pacific revpar growth led all regions at 9.3 percent, primarily through occupancy, which is a result of our portfolio ramping up in china. the mea region continues to face geopolitical unrest and low oil prices, nonetheless revpar still increased as a result of improved year over year demand. u.s. revpar growth of 5.2 percent was primarily driven by adr with demand outpacing supply growth, which is still below the long-term industry average. revenues owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 2,484 $ 2,414 $ 2,227 2.9 8.4 international owned and leased hotels 1,642 1,819 2,012 (9.7) (9.6) total owned and leased hotels $ 4,126 $ 4,233 $ 4,239 (2.5) (0.1) 50 owned and leased hotels: 2016 compared with 2015 the following details the changes in revenues at our owned and leased hotels, giving effect to foreign currency ("fx") changes and acquired and disposed hotels: increase / (decrease) net decrease due to fx changes (1) net increase / (decrease) from acquired and disposed hotels (2) net increase / (decrease) excluding fx changes and the effect of acquired and disposed hotels year ended december 31, 2016 2015 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels comparable (3) $ 2,095 $ 2,056 $ 39 $ $ $ 39 non-comparable 389 358 31 41 (10 ) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 2,484 $ 2,414 $ 70 $ $ 41 $ 29 international owned and leased hotels comparable (3) $ 1,551 $ 1,621 $ (70 ) $ (67 ) $ $ (3 ) non-comparable 91 198 (107 ) (6 ) (95 ) (6 ) international owned and leased hotels $ 1,642 $ 1,819 $ (177 ) $ (73 ) $ (95 ) $ (9 ) ____________ (1) unfavorable movements were a result of the strengthening of the usd compared to other currencies, primarily the british pound ("gbp"), partially offset by the strengthening of the japanese yen ("jpy") compared to the usd. (2) from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2016 , five properties were added to our u.s. owned and leased portfolio on a net basis and six hotels were removed from our international owned and leased portfolio on a net basis. (3) represents comparable hotels for the year ended december 31, 2016. the increase in comparable u.s. owned and leased hotel revenue during the year ended december 31, 2016 was primarily a result of an increase in food and beverage revenue, as well as an increase in revpar of 0.4 percent, attributable to an increase in adr of 2.1 percent, largely offset by a decrease in occupancy of 1.4 percentage points. additionally, u.s. owned and leased hotel revenue increased in 2016 as a result of increases in revenues from properties acquired in february and june of 2015, net of the decrease in revenues from the waldorf astoria new york, which was sold in february 2015. excluding acquisitions and dispositions, revenues from non-comparable u.s. owned and leased hotels decreased for the year ended december 31, 2016 , primarily as a result of renovations at one property during 2016. the decrease in revenues at our international hotels during the year ended december 31, 2016 was primarily a result of the effect of fx changes and decreases in revenues from properties disposed of between january 1, 2015 and december 31, 2016 . 51 owned and leased hotels: 2015 compared with 2014 the following details the changes in revenues at our owned and leased hotels, giving effect to fx changes and acquired and disposed hotels: increase / (decrease) net decrease due to fx changes (1) net increase / (decrease) from acquired and disposed hotels (2) net increase / (decrease) excluding fx changes and the effect of acquired and disposed hotels year ended december 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels comparable (3) $ 2,020 $ 1,913 $ 107 $ $ $ 107 non-comparable 394 314 80 81 (1 ) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 2,414 $ 2,227 $ 187 $ $ 81 $ 106 international owned and leased hotels comparable (3) $ 1,448 $ 1,572 $ (124 ) $ (176 ) $ $ 52 non-comparable 371 440 (69 ) (38 ) (80 ) 49 international owned and leased hotels $ 1,819 $ 2,012 $ (193 ) $ (214 ) $ (80 ) $ 101 ____________ (1) unfavorable movements were a result of the strengthening of the usd compared to other currencies, primarily the gbp and the euro. (2) from january 1, 2014 to december 31, 2015 , 10 properties were added to our u.s. owned and leased portfolio on a net basis and five hotels were removed from our international owned and leased portfolio on a net basis. (3) represents comparable hotels for the year ended december 31, 2015. the increase in revenues at our comparable u.s. owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily a result of an increase in revpar of 4.2 percent, which was mostly attributable to increases in both transient and group business. the increase in revenues at our non-comparable u.s. owned and leased hotels in 2015 was the result of the increase in revenues from properties acquired during 2015, net of the decrease in revenues from properties disposed of in 2015. the decrease in revenues at our international owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily a result of the effect of fx changes and decreases in revenues from properties disposed of between january 1, 2014 and december 31, 2015. on a currency neutral basis, comparable international owned and leased hotel revenues increased as a result of an increase in revpar of 4.2 percent, which was primarily a result of an increase in transient guest business. additionally, excluding dispositions and fx changes, there was an increase in revenues at our non-comparable international owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2015 , primarily as a result of the completion of large renovation projects at certain hotels, which had previously limited the availability of those properties to guests. management and franchise fees and other year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) management fees $ 414 $ 395 $ 384 4.8 2.9 franchise fees 1,192 1,122 927 6.2 21.0 other 95 84 90 13.1 (6.7) $ 1,701 $ 1,601 $ 1,401 6.2 14.3 the increases in management and franchise fees for all periods were driven by increases in revenues from our non-comparable managed and franchised hotels due to the addition of new managed and franchised properties to our portfolio. including new development and ownership type transfers, from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2016 , we added 600 managed and franchised properties on a net basis, and from january 1, 2014 to december 31, 2015 , we added 501 managed and franchised properties on a net basis, providing an additional 89,410 rooms and 81,474 rooms, respectively, to our managed and franchised segment. as new hotels stabilize in our system, we expect the fees received from such hotels to increase as they are part of our system for full periods. additionally, our management and franchise fees increased during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 compared to the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, as a result of increases in revpar at our comparable managed and franchised hotels due to increases in adr. during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , revpar increased 1.7 52 percent and 6.3 percent, respectively, at our comparable managed hotels, and 2.1 percent and 5.2 percent, respectively, at our comparable franchised hotels. franchise fees also increased on a currency neutral basis as a result of increases in licensing fees of $16 million and $57 million during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 997 $ 959 $ 844 4.0 13.6 resort operations 238 207 195 15.0 6.2 financing and other 155 142 132 9.2 7.6 $ 1,390 $ 1,308 $ 1,171 6.3 11.7 timeshare sales revenue increased during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 compared to the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, as a result of increases in commissions recognized from the sale of third-party developed timeshare intervals of $23 million and $136 million , respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2016, revenue from the sale of owned timeshare intervals increased $15 million due to increased sales volume. however, during the year ended december 31, 2015, sales volume of owned timeshare intervals decreased due to the shift in sales mix toward third-party developed interval sales, which resulted in a decrease of owned interval sales revenue of $21 million. overall timeshare sales volume increased 10 percent and 18 percent, respectively, during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , as a result of increased tour flow and net volume per guest. additionally, revenues from our resort operations increased during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 as a result of increases in fees earned related to our hilton grand vacations club, including fees generated by new members. operating expenses owned and leased hotels year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 1,661 $ 1,589 $ 1,497 4.5 6.1 international owned and leased hotels 1,439 1,579 1,755 (8.9) (10.0) total owned and leased hotels $ 3,100 $ 3,168 $ 3,252 (2.1) (2.6) fluctuations in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels relate to various factors, including changes in occupancy levels, labor costs, utilities, taxes, insurance costs and foreign currency. the change in the number of occupied room nights directly affects certain variable expenses, which include payroll, supplies and other operating expenses. 53 owned and leased hotels: 2016 compared with 2015 the following details the changes in operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels, giving effect to fx changes and acquired and disposed hotels: increase / (decrease) net decrease due to fx changes (1) net increase / (decrease) from acquired and disposed hotels (2) net increase / (decrease) excluding fx changes and the effect of acquired and disposed hotels year ended december 31, 2016 2015 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels comparable (3) $ 1,413 $ 1,363 $ 50 $ $ $ 50 non-comparable 248 226 22 25 (3 ) u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 1,661 $ 1,589 $ 72 $ $ 25 $ 47 international owned and leased hotels comparable (3) $ 1,356 $ 1,409 $ (53 ) $ (68 ) $ $ 15 non-comparable 83 170 (87 ) (6 ) (74 ) (7 ) international owned and leased hotels $ 1,439 $ 1,579 $ (140 ) $ (74 ) $ (74 ) $ 8 ____________ (1) unfavorable movements were a result of the strengthening of the usd compared to other currencies, primarily the gbp, partially offset by the strengthening of the jpy, compared to the usd. (2) from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2016 , five properties were added to our u.s. owned and leased portfolio on a net basis and six hotels were removed from our international owned and leased hotel portfolio on a net basis. (3) represents comparable hotels for the year ended december 31, 2016. the increase in operating expenses at our u.s. owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2016 was primarily the result of increases at our comparable hotels due to increased wages and benefits and other operating expenses. operating expenses at our non-comparable u.s. owned and leased hotels increased during the year ended december 31, 2016 primarily as a result of increases in operating expenses from properties acquired during 2015, net of the decrease in operating expenses from properties disposed of in 2015. the decrease in operating expenses at our international owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2016 was primarily a result of the effect of fx changes and properties disposed of between january 1, 2015 and december 31, 2016 . owned and leased hotels: 2015 compared with 2014 the following details the changes in revenues at our owned and leased hotels, giving effect to fx changes and acquired and disposed hotels: increase / (decrease) net decrease due to fx changes (1) net increase / (decrease) from acquired and disposed hotels (2) net increase excluding fx changes and the effect of acquired and disposed hotels year ended december 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) u.s. owned and leased hotels comparable (3) $ 1,347 $ 1,273 $ 74 $ $ $ 74 non-comparable 242 224 18 17 1 u.s. owned and leased hotels $ 1,589 $ 1,497 $ 92 $ $ 17 $ 75 international owned and leased hotels comparable (3) $ 1,298 $ 1,407 $ (109 ) $ (154 ) $ $ 45 non-comparable 281 348 (67 ) (32 ) (60 ) 25 international owned and leased hotels $ 1,579 $ 1,755 $ (176 ) $ (186 ) $ (60 ) $ 70 ____________ (1) unfavorable movements were a result of the strengthening of the usd compared to other currencies, primarily the gbp and the euro. (2) from january 1, 2014 to december 31, 2015 , 10 properties were added to our u.s. owned and leased portfolio on a net basis and five hotels were removed from out international owned and leased portfolio on a net basis. (3) represents comparable hotels for the year ended december 31, 2015. 54 the increase in operating expenses at our u.s. owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily the result of increases at our comparable hotels due to higher variable operating costs due to increased occupancy. operating expenses at our non-comparable u.s. owned and leased hotels increased during the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily as a result of the increase in operating expenses from properties acquired in 2015, net of the decrease in operating expenses from properties disposed of in 2015. the decrease in operating expenses at our international owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily a result of the effect of fx changes and decreases in operating expenses from properties disposed of between january 1, 2014 and december 31, 2015. on a currency neutral basis, operating expenses increased at our international comparable owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2015 , primarily as a result of increases in variable operating costs resulting from increased occupancy. additionally, excluding dispositions and fx changes, the increase in operating expenses at our non-comparable international owned and leased hotels during the year ended december 31, 2015 was consistent with the increase in revenues for these hotels. the changes were primarily the result of the completion of large renovation projects at certain hotels in 2015. the renovations limited occupancy and, therefore, reduced revenues and operating expenses. timeshare year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) timeshare sales $ 739 $ 701 $ 586 5.4 19.6 resort operations 133 130 123 2.3 5.7 financing and other 76 66 58 15.2 13.8 $ 948 $ 897 $ 767 5.7 16.9 timeshare sales expense increased during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 compared to the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, primarily as a result of higher sales and marketing expenses related to increases in sales volume of third-party developed timeshare intervals for both periods and in sales volume of owned intervals for the year ended december 31, 2016 . additionally, cost of product related to the reacquisition of owned timeshare inventory for customer upgrades into third-party developed properties decreased during the year ended december 31, 2016, partially offsetting the increase in sales and marketing expenses, and increased during the year ended december 31, 2015, contributing to the increase in timeshare sales expense. depreciation and amortization year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) depreciation $ 358 $ 351 $ 313 2.0 12.1 amortization 328 341 315 (3.8) 8.3 $ 686 $ 692 $ 628 (0.9) 10.2 the increases in depreciation expense during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 compared to the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, resulted primarily from the addition of property and equipment related to the properties acquired in 2015, partially offset by decreases as a result of disposed hotels. the decrease in amortization expense during the year ended december 31, 2016 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 , and the increase in amortization expense during the year ended december 31, 2015 , compared to the year ended december 31, 2014, were primarily a result of $13 million in accelerated amortization that was recognized in 2015 on a management contract intangible asset for a property that was managed by us prior to our acquisition of it. the increase in amortization expense during the year ended december 31, 2015 was also related to capitalized software costs placed into service during 2014 and 2015. 55 general, administrative and other year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) general and administrative $ 547 $ 547 $ 416 31.5 other 69 64 75 7.8 (14.7) $ 616 $ 611 $ 491 0.8 24.4 general and administrative expense was unchanged during the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 , however, there were significant offsetting increases and decreases during the year. these included a decrease of $73 million in severance costs related to the sale of the waldorf astoria new york, as well as a decrease in share-based compensation expense due to $66 million of additional expense recognized during the year ended december 31, 2015 , when certain remaining awards granted in connection with our initial public offering vested. the decreases were offset by an increase of $133 million of costs associated with the spin-offs. the increase in general and administrative expenses during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily a result of the recognition of approximately $95 million in severance costs related to the sale of the waldorf astoria new york and the additional $66 million of share-based compensation expense recognized during the year, as previously discussed. the increase was also a result of the reversal of accruals in 2014 related to the termination of a cash-based, long-term incentive plan that was replaced with our 2013 omnibus incentive plan, resulting in an $18 million reduction in general and administrative expense during the year ended december 31, 2014. gain on sales of assets, net year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) gain on sales of assets, net $ 9 $ 306 $ (97.1) nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we recognized a gain on the sale of one of our hotels held by a consolidated vie. see note 9 : " consolidated variable interest entities " in our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we recognized gains upon completion of the sales of the hilton sydney and the waldorf astoria new york. non-operating income and expenses year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) interest expense $ 587 $ 575 $ 618 2.1 (7.0) the increase in interest expense during the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily due to the issuance of new debt, partially offset by the reduction of principal on certain debt from prepayments and the amendment of our senior secured term loan facility entered into in 2013 (the "2013 term loans"), which extended the maturity and reduced the interest rate. see note 12 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements for details of our issuances and repayments related to financing transactions that occurred during the year ended december 31, 2016, as well as the interest rates for each debt instrument. the decrease in interest expense during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily as a result of a decrease in our indebtedness due to debt prepayments of $775 million on our 2013 term loans during the year, which resulted in lower debt principal balances on which interest expense was calculated. 56 year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates $ 8 $ 23 $ 19 (65.2) 21.1 the decrease in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates during the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily due to a $17 million impairment loss for the impairment of one of our investments in affiliates recognized in 2016. the increase in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily due to improved performance at our unconsolidated hotels, partially offset by $3 million in equity in earnings included in the year ended december 31, 2014 from unconsolidated affiliates that were involved in an equity investments exchange or sold during that year. year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions $ (13 ) $ (41 ) $ 26 (68.3) nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the net loss on foreign currency transactions for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 primarily related to changes in foreign currency rates on our short-term cross-currency intercompany loans, predominantly for loans denominated in australian dollar ("aud"), euro and gbp during the year ended december 31, 2016 , and loans denominated in aud, brazilian real and gbp during the year ended december 31, 2015 . the net gain on foreign currency transactions for the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily a result of changes in foreign currency rates on our short-term cross-currency intercompany loans, predominantly those denominated in gbp and aud. year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) other gain (loss), net $ (26 ) $ (1 ) $ 37 nm (1) nm (1) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. the other loss, net for the year ended december 31, 2016 primarily related to the write-off of: (i) $20 million of unamortized debt issuance costs as a result of the full repayment of the commercial mortgage-backed securities loan entered into in 2013 (the "2013 cmbs loan"); and (ii) $4 million of debt issuance costs incurred in connection with the amendment of the 2013 term loans that were not capitalized. the other loss, net for the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily related to $26 million of transaction costs from the acquisition of properties in connection with the tax deferred exchange, partially offset by a $24 million gain from the capital lease liability reduction from one of our consolidated vies. the other gain, net for the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily related to a pre-tax gain of $23 million resulting from an equity investments exchange, as well as pre-tax gains of $13 million resulting from the sale of two hotels and a vacant parcel of land. 57 year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) income tax expense $ 891 $ 80 $ 465 nm (1) (82.8) income tax expense for the year ended december 31, 2016 increased compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily as a result of two corporate structuring transactions that were effected during the three months ended december 31, 2016 and included: (i) the organization of hilton's assets and subsidiaries in preparation for the spin-offs; and (ii) a restructuring of hilton's international assets and subsidiaries (the "international restructuring"). the international restructuring involved a transfer of certain assets, including intellectual property used in the international business, from u.s. subsidiaries to foreign subsidiaries and became effective in december 2016. the transfer of the intellectual property resulted in the recognition of tax expense representing the estimated u.s. tax expected to be paid in future years on income generated from the intellectual property transferred to foreign jurisdictions. further, our deferred effective tax rate is determined based upon the composition of applicable federal and state tax rates. due to the changes in the footprint of the company and the expected applicable tax rates at which our domestic deferred tax assets and liabilities will reverse in future periods as a result of the described structuring activities, our estimated deferred effective tax rate has increased. in total, these structuring transactions resulted in additional income tax expense of $513 million during the three months ended december 31, 2016. see note 18 : " income taxes " in our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. the decrease in income tax expense during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily the result of a $640 million deferred tax benefit resulting from transactions involving the conversion of certain u.s. subsidiaries from corporations to limited liability companies and the election to disregard certain foreign subsidiaries for u.s. federal income tax purposes. this benefit was offset by an increase in tax expense resulting from a $349 million increase in our income before income taxes. further, income tax expense was affected by the reduction in goodwill in connection with the sales of the waldorf astoria new york and the hilton sydney, as well as compensation costs incurred for certain awards granted in connection with our initial public offering for which no tax benefits were recognized . segment results we evaluate our business segment operating performance using segment adjusted ebitda, as described in note 23 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. for a discussion of how management uses ebitda and adjusted ebitda to evaluate and manage our business and material limitations on their usefulness, refer to " key business and financial metrics used by management." 58 the following table sets forth revenues and adjusted ebitda by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts: year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) revenues: ownership $ 4,157 $ 4,262 $ 4,271 (2.5) (0.2) management and franchise 1,786 1,691 1,468 5.6 15.2 timeshare 1,390 1,308 1,171 6.3 11.7 segment revenues 7,333 7,261 6,910 1.0 5.1 other revenues from managed and franchised properties 4,446 4,130 3,691 7.7 11.9 other revenues 102 91 99 12.1 (8.1) intersegment fees elimination (1) (218 ) (210 ) (198 ) 3.8 6.1 total revenues $ 11,663 $ 11,272 $ 10,502 3.5 7.3 adjusted ebitda (1) : ownership $ 1,029 $ 1,064 $ 1,000 (3.3) 6.4 management and franchise 1,786 1,691 1,468 5.6 15.2 timeshare 381 352 337 8.2 4.5 corporate and other (221 ) (228 ) (255 ) (3.1) (10.6) adjusted ebitda $ 2,975 $ 2,879 $ 2,550 3.3 12.9 ____________ (1) refer to note 23 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements for additional detail on our intersegment fees included in our segment revenues and segment adjusted ebitda. the following table reconciles net income to ebitda and adjusted ebitda: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) net income $ 364 $ 1,416 $ 682 interest expense 587 575 618 income tax expense 891 80 465 depreciation and amortization 686 692 628 interest expense, income tax and depreciation and amortization included in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates 30 32 37 ebitda 2,558 2,795 2,430 gain on sales of assets, net (9 ) (306 ) loss (gain) on foreign currency transactions 13 41 (26 ) ff&amp;e replacement reserve 56 48 46 share-based compensation expense 91 162 74 impairment loss 15 9 impairment loss included in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates 17 other loss (gain), net 26 1 (37 ) other adjustment items 208 129 63 adjusted ebitda $ 2,975 $ 2,879 $ 2,550 ownership ownership segment revenues decreased $105 million and $9 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 compared to the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. the decrease in revenues at our owned and leased hotels was primarily a result of the disposal of international hotels and fx fluctuations, partially offset by the net effect of acquired and disposed hotels in the u.s. during the year ended december 31, 2015, the overall decrease in revenues was also offset by the increase in revenues at our comparable owned and leased hotels due to increased revpar of 4.2 percent. ownership adjusted ebitda decreased $35 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015, primarily as a result of the decrease in ownership segment revenues partially offset by decreases in owned and leased operating expenses of $68 million . ownership adjusted ebitda increased $64 million for the year ended 59 december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014, primarily as a result of the decrease in owned and leased operating expenses of $84 million, partially offset by the decrease in ownership segment revenues. refer to " revenues owned and leased hotels" and " operating expenses owned and leased hotels" for further discussion of the changes in revenues and operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels. management and franchise management and franchise segment revenues increased $95 million and $223 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 compared to the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, primarily as a result of the net addition of hotels to our managed and franchised system, as well as increases in revpar at our comparable managed and franchised properties of 2.0 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively. the increase in segment revenues was also due to an increase in licensing and other fees. refer to " revenues management and franchise fees and other" for further discussion on the increases in revenues from our managed and franchised properties. management and franchise adjusted ebitda increased in line with the increases in management and franchise segment revenues. timeshare timeshare segment revenues increased $82 million and $137 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 compared to the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, primarily as a result of increased timeshare sales revenue due to increases in commissions recognized from the sale of third-party developed intervals, as well as increased revenues from our resort operations. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , timeshare sales revenue also increased from the sale of owned timeshare intervals. refer to " revenues timeshare" for further discussion of the changes in revenues from our timeshare segment. timeshare adjusted ebitda increased $29 million and $15 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 compared to the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, as a result of the increases in timeshare revenues, partially offset by the increases in timeshare operating expenses of $51 million and $130 million, respectively. refer to " revenues timeshare" and " operating expenses timeshare" for a discussion of the changes in revenues and operating expenses from our timeshare segment. supplemental financial data for unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries as of december 31, 2016 , we owned majority or controlling financial interests in 56 hotels, representing 28,931 rooms. see "part i item 2. properties" for more i nformation on each of our owned hotels. of these owned hotels, 36 hotels representing an aggregate of 23,570 rooms as of december 31, 2016 , were owned by subsidiaries that we collectively refer to as our "unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries." the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries are not subject to any of the restrictive covenants in the indentures that govern our senior notes due 2021 and the 4.25% senior notes due 2024 (together, the "senior notes"), which are unsecured. we have included this supplemental financial data to comply with certain financial information requirements regarding our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries set forth in the indenture that governs our senior notes. upon completion of the spin-offs, our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries will not meet the threshold to constitute a "significant subsidiary" as defined by regulation s-x and we will no longer be required to disclose this supplemental financial data. for the y ear ended december 31, 2016 , the unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries represented 19.6 percent of our total revenues, 20.0 percent of income before income taxes, 43.1 percent of net income attributable to hilton stockholders and 23.6 percent of our adjusted ebitda, and as of december 31, 2016 , represented 34.4 percent of our total assets and 24.2 percent of our total li abilities. 60 the following tables present supplemental unaudited financial data, as required by the indenture, for our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries and all periods presented reflect the adoption of asu no. 2015-03 and no. 2015-15: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) revenues $ 2,288 $ 2,239 $ 2,060 net income attributable to hilton stockholders 150 222 157 capital expenditures for property and equipment 185 203 152 adjusted ebitda (1) 702 702 621 cash provided by (used in): operating activities 378 415 438 investing activities (184 ) 273 (149 ) financing activities 3 (626 ) (317 ) ____________ (1) the following table provides a reconciliation of our unrestricted u.s. real estate subsidiaries' net income to ebitda and adjusted ebitda, which we believe is the most closely comparable u.s. gaap financial measure: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) net income $ 151 $ 224 $ 156 interest expense 167 174 173 income tax expense 100 168 110 depreciation and amortization 254 244 202 interest expense and depreciation and amortization included in equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates 3 ebitda 675 810 641 gain on sales of assets, net (1 ) (143 ) share-based compensation expense 1 2 other loss (gain), net 23 32 (23 ) other adjustment items 4 1 3 adjusted ebitda $ 702 $ 702 $ 621 december 31, 2016 2015 (in millions) assets $ 9,005 $ 8,914 liabilities 4,918 6,718 liquidity and capital resources overview as of december 31, 2016 , we had total cash and cash equivalents of $1,684 million , including $266 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. the majority of our restricted cash and cash equivalents balance related to cash collateral on our self-insurance programs, escrowed cash from our timeshare operations and cash restricted in accordance with our long-term debt and timeshare debt agreements. our known short-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for operating expenses and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, legal costs, operating costs associated with the management of hotels, interest and scheduled principal payments on our outstanding indebtedness, costs associated with the spin-offs, contract acquisition costs and capital expenditures for renovations and maintenance at our owned and leased hotels. our long-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for scheduled debt maturities, capital improvements at our owned and leased hotels, purchase commitments, dividends as declared, costs associated with potential acquisitions and corporate capital expenditures. 61 we finance our business activities primarily with existing cash and cash generated from our operations. we believe that this cash will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for operating expenses and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, legal costs and purchase commitments for the foreseeable future. the objectives of our cash management policy are to maintain the availability of liquidity and minimize operational costs. further, we have an investment policy that is focused on the preservation of capital and maximizing the return on new and existing investments and returning available capital to stockholders. we and our affiliates, and/or our major stockholders and their respective affiliates, may from time to time purchase our outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. purchases or retirement of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. the amounts involved may be material. in preparation of the spin-offs that occurred on january 3, 2017 , we completed several financing transactions during the year ended december 31, 2016. for further information on these transactions, see note 12 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. sources and uses of our cash and cash equivalents the following table summarizes our net cash flows and key metrics related to our liquidity: as of and for the year ended december 31, percent change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 2015 vs. 2014 (in millions) net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,350 $ 1,407 $ 1,307 (4.1) 7.7 net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (478 ) 414 (310 ) nm (1) nm (1) net cash used in financing activities (29 ) (1,714 ) (1,075 ) (98.3) 59.4 working capital surplus (2) 873 142 267 nm (1) (46.8) ____________ (1) fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. (2) total current assets less total current liabilities. our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 1.33 , 1.06 and 1.12 as of december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014, respectively. operating activities cash flow from operating activities is primarily generated from management and franchise fee revenue, operating income from our owned and leased hotels and sales of timeshare units. the $57 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily as a result of an increase in net cash paid for taxes of $202 million , partially offset by improved operating results in our management and franchise and timeshare businesses. the $100 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily as a result of improved operating results in each of our three business segments, as well as a decrease in cash paid for interest of $29 million, offset by an increase in net cash paid for income taxes of $46 million. investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2016 , net cash used in investing activities was $478 million , and consisted primarily of capital expenditures, including contract acquisition costs and capitalized software costs. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we generated $414 million in cash from investing activities primarily as a result of net proceeds from the tax deferred exchange of the waldorf astoria new york and the sale of the hilton sydney of $456 million and $331 million, respectively. this amount was partially offset by $409 million in capital expenditures, including contract acquisition costs and capitalized software costs. 62 during the year ended december 31, 2014, net cash used in investing activities was $310 million , and consisted primarily of capital expenditures, including contract acquisition costs and capitalized software costs. our capital expenditures for property and equipment primarily include expenditures related to the renovation of existing owned and leased properties and our corporate facilities. our software capitalization costs relate to various systems initiatives for the benefit of our hotel owners and our overall corporate operations. financing activities the $1,685 million decrease in net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 was primarily attributable to an increase in proceeds from borrowings of $4,667 million , partially offset by an increase in repayments of debt of $2,735 million and an increase in cash dividends of $139 million . the borrowings comprised $4,415 million of long-term debt, of which $2,915 million was for park and $500 million was for hgv, and $300 million of additional borrowings under our timeshare financing receivables credit facility (the "timeshare facility"). we used proceeds from the borrowings and available cash to repay the outstanding balance of the 2013 cmbs loan of $3,418 million, $554 million of mortgage loans and $250 million on the 2013 term loans. for details of our issuances and repayments related to financing transactions that occurred during the year ended december 31, 2016, refer to note 12 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. the increase in cash dividends was due to the declaration of quarterly cash dividends beginning in the third quarter of 2015 and continuing quarterly for the full year of 2016. the $639 million increase in net cash used in financing activities during the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily attributable to a decrease in proceeds from borrowings of $302 million, an increase of repayments of debt of $200 million and the payment of cash dividends totaling $138 million in 2015. during the year ended december 31, 2015, we repaid a $525 million mortgage loan and made $775 million in prepayments on our 2013 term loans, while during the year ended december 31, 2014 we made prepayments of $1.0 billion on our 2013 term loans. additionally, during the year ended december 31, 2014, we issued $350 million of notes backed by timeshare financing receivables, of which $300 million of the proceeds was used to reduce the outstanding balance on our timeshare facility. debt and borrowing capacity as of december 31, 2016 , our total indebtedness, e xcluding $224 million of o ur share of debt of our investments in affiliates, was approximately $10.8 billion , including $694 million of timeshare debt. for further information on our total indebtedness, debt repayments and guarantees refer to note 12 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to reduce capital expenditures, issue additional equity securities or draw on our revolving credit facilities. our ability to make scheduled principal payments and to pay interest on our debt depends on our future operating performance, which is subject to general conditions in or affecting the hotel and timeshare industries that are beyond our control. credit facilities as of december 31, 2016, we had three senior revolving credit facilities that provided for an aggregate of $2.2 billion in borrowings, including a $1.0 billion facility to remain with hilton after the spin-offs, and a $1.0 billion facility and a $200 million fa cility for park and hgv, respectively, to be transferred in connection with the spin-offs. these senior revolving credit facilities allowed for up to $230 million to be drawn in the form of letters of credit, with $50 million under park's facility, $30 million under hgv's facility and $150 million under hilton's facility . as of december 31, 2016 , we ha d $45 million of letters of credit outstanding under hilton's facility, leaving us with a borrowin g capacity of $955 million and ther e were no letters of credit or borrowings outstanding under park and hgv's facilities. for further information on our credit facilities and our guarantors' obligations thereunder, refer to note 12 : " debt " in our consolidated financial statements. in august 2016, we amended the terms of our timeshare facility to increase the borrowing capacity from $300 million to $450 million, allowing us to borrow up to the maximum amount until august 2018 and requiring all amounts borrowed to be repaid by august 2019. in december 2016, we borrowed an additional $300 million bringing our outstanding borrowings under the timeshare facility to $450 million as of december 31, 2016 . 63 letters of credit we had a total of $45 million in letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , the majority of which were outstanding under one of our revolving credit facilities and related to our guarantees on debt and other obligations of third parties and self-insurance programs. the maturities of the letters of credit were within one year as of december 31, 2016 . contractual obligations the following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of december 31, 2016 : payments due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years (in millions) long-term debt (1)(2) $ 12,605 $ 493 $ 869 $ 3,977 $ 7,266 timeshare debt (2) 730 87 556 87 capital lease obligations 415 19 57 60 279 operating leases 1,991 210 368 332 1,081 purchase commitments 333 52 253 24 4 total contractual obligations $ 16,074 $ 861 $ 2,103 $ 4,480 $ 8,630 ____________ (1) we have assumed all extensions, which are solely at our option, were exercised. (2) includes principal, as well as estimated interest payments. for our variable-rate debt, we have assumed a constant 30-day libor rate of 0.72 percent as o f december 31, 2016 . the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of december 31, 2016 was $253 million . these amounts are excluded from the table above because they are uncertain and subject to the findings of the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where we are subject to tax. it is possible that the amount of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could change during the next year. refer to note 18 : " income taxes " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our liability for unrecognized tax benefits. in addition to the purchase commitments in the table above, in the normal course of business we enter into purchase commitments for which we are reimbursed by the owners of our managed and franchised hotels. these obligations have minimal or no effect on our net income and cash flow. off-balance sheet arrangements our off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2016 included letters of credit of $45 million , guarantees of $5 million for debt and obligations of third parties, performance guarantees with possible cash outlays totaling approximately $69 million , of which we have accrued $28 million as of december 31, 2016 for estimated probable exposure, and construction contract commitments of approximately $43 million for capital expenditures at our owned, leased and consolidated vie hotels. our contracts contain clauses that allow us to cancel all or some portion of the work. if cancellation of a contract occurred, our commitment would be any costs incurred up to the cancellation date, in addition to any costs associated with the discharge of the contract. see note 24 : " commitments and contingencies " in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods and the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. we believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies are critical because they involve a higher degree of judgment, and the estimates required to be made were based on assumptions that are inherently uncertain. as a result, these accounting policies could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and related disclosures. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates and judgments based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to reflect the current circumstances. while we believe our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information presently available. actual results may differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions and conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. 64 management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of the board of directors. property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives we evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives for potential impairment by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net book value of the assets if we determine there are indicators of impairment. if it is determined that the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than the net book value of the assets, the excess of the net book value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations as impairment losses. as part of the process described above, we exercise judgment to: determine if there are indicators of impairment present. factors we consider when making this determination include assessing the overall effect of trends in the hospitality industry and the general economy, historical experience, capital costs and other asset-specific information; determine the projected undiscounted future cash flows when indicators of impairment are present. judgment is required when developing projections of future revenues and expenses based on estimated growth rates over the expected useful life of the asset group. these estimated growth rates are based on historical operating results, as well as various internal projections and external sources; and determine the asset fair value when required. in determining the fair value, we often use internally-developed discounted cash flow models. assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models include estimating cash flows, which may require us to adjust for specific market conditions, as well as capitalization rates, which are based on location, property or asset type, market-specific dynamics and overall economic performance. the discount rate takes into account our weighted average cost of capital according to our capital structure and other market specific considerations. we had $8,930 million of property and equipment, net and $1,526 million of intangible assets with finite lives as of december 31, 2016 . changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. investments in affiliates we evaluate our investments in affiliates for potential impairment when there are indicators that the fair value of our investment may be less than our carrying value. our investments in affiliates consist primarily of our interests in entities that own or lease hotels. as such, the factors we consider when determining if there are indicators of potential impairment are similar to property and equipment discussed above. we record an impairment loss when we determine there has been an "other-than-temporary" decline in the investment's fair value. if an identified event or change in circumstances requires an evaluation to determine if the value of an investment may have an other-than-temporary decline, we assess the fair value of the investment based on the accepted valuation methods, which include internally-developed discounted cash flow models. the principal factors used in our discounted cash flow models that require judgment are the same as the items discussed in property and equipment above. if an investment's fair value is below its carrying value and the decline is considered to be other-than-temporary, we will recognize an impairment loss in equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated affiliates for equity method investments or impairment losses for cost method investments in our consolidated statements of operations. we had $114 million of investments in affiliates as of december 31, 2016 . changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing of investments in affiliates could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. goodwill we evaluate goodwill for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value of our reporting units to their fair value. our reporting units are the same as our operating segments as described in note 23 : " business segments " in our consolidated financial statements. we perform this evaluation annually or at an interim date if indicators of impairment exist. in any given year we may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. if we cannot determine qualitatively that the fair value is in excess of the carrying value, or we decide to bypass the qualitative assessment, we proceed to the two-step quantitative process. in the first step, we 65 compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. when determining estimated fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models, as well as market conditions relative to the operations of our reporting units. under the discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates, and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal projections and external sources. the weighted average cost of capital is estimated based on each reporting units' cost of debt and equity and a selected capital structure. the selected capital structure for each reporting unit is based on consideration of capital structures of comparable publicly traded companies operating in the business of that reporting unit. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step must be performed. in the second step, we estimate the implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined by taking the fair value of the reporting unit and allocating it to all of its assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. we had $5,822 million of goodwill as of december 31, 2016 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill impairment testing could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. additionally, when a portion of a reporting unit is disposed, goodwill is allocated to the gain or loss on disposition based on the relative fair values of the business or businesses disposed and the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained. when determining fair value of the businesses disposed of and the reporting unit to be retained, we use estimates and assumptions similar to that of those used in our impairment analysis. brands we evaluate our brand intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the brand is below the carrying value. when determining fair value, we utilize discounted future cash flow models. under the discounted cash flow approach, we utilize various assumptions that require judgment, including projections of revenues and expenses based on estimated long-term growth rates and discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital. our estimates of long-term growth and costs are based on historical data, as well as various internal estimates. if a brand's estimated current fair value is less than its respective carrying value, the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations within impairment losses. we had $4,848 million of brand intangible assets as of december 31, 2016 . changes in the estimates and assumptions used in our brands impairment testing, most notably revenue growth rates and discount rates, could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. hilton honors hilton honors defers revenue received from participating hotels and program partners in an amount equal to the estimated cost per point of the future redemption obligation. we engage outside actuaries to assist in determining the fair value of the future award redemption obligation using statistical formulas that project future point redemptions based on factors that require judgment, including an estimate of "breakage" (points that will never be redeemed), an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed and the cost of the points to be redeemed. the cost of the points to be redeemed includes further estimates of available room nights, occupancy rates, room rates and any devaluation or appreciation of points based on changes in reward prices or changes in points earned per stay. we had $1,432 million of guest loyalty liability as of december 31, 2016 , including $543 million in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities. changes in the estimates used in developing our breakage rate or other expected future program operations could result in a material change to our guest loyalty liability. allowance for loan losses the allowance for loan losses is related to the receivables generated by our financing of timeshare interval sales, which are secured by the underlying timeshare properties. we determine our timeshare financing receivables to be past due based on the contractual terms of the individual mortgage loans. we use a technique referred to as static pool analysis as the basis for determining our general reserve requirements on our timeshare financing receivables. the adequacy of the related allowance is determined by management through analysis of several factors requiring judgment, such as current economic conditions and industry trends, as well as the specific risk characteristics of the portfolio, including assumed default rates. we had $120 million of allowance for loan losses as of december 31, 2016 . changes in the estimates used in developing our default rates could result in a material change to our allowance. 66 income taxes we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates. we regularly review our deferred tax assets to assess their potential realization and establish a valuation allowance for portions of such assets that we believe will not be ultimately realized. in performing this review, we make estimates and assumptions regarding projected future taxable income, the expected timing of reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. a change in these assumptions may increase or decrease our valuation allowance resulting in an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. we use a prescribed more-likely-than-not recognition threshold for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return if there is uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. assumptions and estimates are used to determine the amount of tax benefit to be recognized. changes to these assumptions and estimates can lead to an additional income tax benefit (expense), which can materially change our consolidated financial statements. legal contingencies we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. an estimated loss from a loss contingency should be accrued by a charge to income if it is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. significant judgment is required when we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. changes in these factors could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. consolidations we use judgment when evaluating whether we have a controlling financial interest in an entity, including the assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests in an entity that are not controllable through voting interests. if the entity is considered to be a vie, we use judgment determining whether we are the primary beneficiary, and then consolidate those vies for which we have determined we are the primary beneficiary. if the entity in which we hold an interest does not meet the definition of a vie, we evaluate whether we have a controlling financial interest through our voting interest in the entity. changes to judgments used in evaluating our partnerships and other investments could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. share-based compensation the process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing the associated expense over the requisite service period involves significant management estimates and assumptions. refer to note 20 : " share-based compensation " in our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. any changes to these estimates will affect the amount of compensation expense we recognize with respect to future grants. 67 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect future income, cash flows and fair value of the company, depending on changes to interest rates and/or foreign exchange rates. in certain situations, we may seek to reduce cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. we continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. we enter into derivative financial arrangements to the extent they meet the objective described above, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable-rate debt. interest rates on our variable-rate debt discussed below are based on one-month and three-month libor, so we are most vulnerable to changes in these rates. the following table sets forth the contractual maturities and the total fair values as of december 31, 2016 for our financial instruments that are materially affected by interest rate risk: maturities by period 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter carrying value fair value (in millions, excluding average interest rates) assets: fixed-rate timeshare financing receivables $ 152 $ 132 $ 133 $ 134 $ 130 $ 471 $ 1,152 $ 1,153 average interest rate (1) 11.98 % liabilities: fixed-rate long-term debt (2)(3) $ 54 $ $ $ $ 1,481 $ 3,430 $ 4,965 $ 5,037 average interest rate (1) 4.77 % fixed-rate timeshare debt (3) $ 73 $ 50 $ 36 $ 46 $ 39 $ $ 244 $ 246 average interest rate (1) 1.97 % variable-rate long-term debt (3)(4) $ 35 $ 35 $ 35 $ 776 $ 931 $ 3,066 $ 4,878 $ 4,987 average interest rate (1) 3.12 % variable-rate timeshare debt $ $ $ 450 $ $ $ $ 450 $ 450 average interest rate (1) 1.96 % ____________ (1) average interest rate as of december 31, 2016 . (2) excludes capital lease obligations with a carrying value of $242 million and debt of certain consolidated vies with a carrying value of $33 million as of december 31, 2016 . (3) carrying value includes unamortized deferred financing costs and discounts. (4) for maturity date extensions that are solely at our option, we assumed they were exercised. refer to note 16 : " fair value measurements " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion of the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in various currencies and are exposed to earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our principal exposure results from management and franchise fees earned in foreign currencies and revenues from our international owned and leased hotels, partially offset by foreign operating expenses and capital expenditures, the value of which could change materially in reference to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. we also have exposure from our international financial assets and liabilities, including certain intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested, the value of which could change materially in reference to the functional currencies of the exposed entities. as of december 31, 2016 , our largest net exposures were to the euro, gbp and aud. as of december 31, 2016 , we held 68 short-term foreign exchange forward contracts with a total notional amount of $326 million . these offset exposure to financial assets and liabilities and are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. 68risk factors 12 risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used and basis of presentation in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties," "hotels" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us. of these properties, a portion are directly owned or leased by us or joint ventures in which we have an interest, and the remaining properties are owned by third-party owners. on january 3, 2017, we completed the spin-offs of a portfolio of hotels and resorts, as well as our timeshare business, into two independent, publicly traded companies: park hotels &amp; resorts inc. ("park") and hilton grand vacations inc. ("hgv"), respectively, (the "spin-offs"). the spin-offs were completed via a distribution to each of hilton's stockholders of record, as of the close of business on december 15, 2016, of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of each of park and hgv. each hilton stockholder received one share of park common stock for every five shares of hilton common stock and one share of hgv common stock for every 10 shares of hilton common stock. hilton did not retain any interest in park or hgv. both park and hgv have their common stock listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbols "pk" and "hgv," respectively. see " item 1a. risk factors" included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. this annual report on form 10-k presents our business and results of operations as of and for the periods indicated, giving effect to the spin-offs, with the combined historical financial results of park and hgv reflected as discontinued operations. on january 3, 2017, we completed a 1-for-3 reverse stock split of hilton's outstanding common stock (the "reverse stock split"). the authorized number of shares of common stock was reduced from 30,000,000,000 to 10,000,000,000, and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock remained 3,000,000,000. all share and share-related information presented in this annual report on form 10-k for periods prior to the reverse stock split have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the decreased number of shares resulting from the reverse stock split. hna tourism group co., ltd. and certain of its affiliates are referred to herein as "hna," and the blackstone group l.p. and certain of its affiliates are referred to herein as "blackstone." reference to "average daily rate" or "adr" means hotel room revenue divided by total number of room nights sold in a given period, and "revenue per available room" or "revpar" represents hotel room revenue divided by room nights available to guests for a given period. references to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, a provision for income taxes and depreciation and amortization, or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for additional information on these financial metrics. 2 item 1. business overview hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 5,284 properties comprising 856,115 rooms in 105 countries and territories as of december 31, 2017. our premier brand portfolio includes: our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton; our full service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio - a collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton, tapestry collection by hilton and embassy suites by hilton; our focused service hotel brands, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, tru by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton; and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 71 million members in our award-winning guest loyalty program, hilton honors. we operate our business through two operating segments: (i) management and franchise; and (ii) ownership. each segment is managed separately because of its distinct economic characteristics. the management and franchise segment includes all of the hotels we manage for third-party owners, as well as all franchised hotels operated or managed by someone other than us. as of december 31, 2017 , this segment included 656 managed hotels, 4,507 franchised hotels and 48 timeshare resorts totaling 5,211 properties consisting of 833,909 rooms. within this total are the 67 hotels with 35,406 rooms that were previously owned or leased by hilton or unconsolidated affiliates of hilton and, upon completion of the spin-offs, were owned or leased by park or unconsolidated affiliates of park. the management and franchise segment generates its revenue from: (i) management and franchise fees charged to third-party hotel owners; (ii) license fees for the exclusive right to use certain hilton marks and intellectual property; and (iii) affiliate fees charged to owned and leased hotels. as of december 31, 2017 , the ownership segment included 73 properties totaling 22,206 rooms, comprising 64 hotels that we wholly owned or leased, one hotel owned by a consolidated non-wholly owned entity, two hotels leased by consolidated variable interest entities ("vies") and six hotels owned or leased by unconsolidated affiliates. in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , nearly 108,000 new rooms were approved for development, and we opened 399 hotels consisting of over 59,000 rooms. as of december 31, 2017 , we had a total of 2,257 hotels in our development pipeline, representing approximately 345,000 rooms under construction or approved for development throughout 107 countries and territories, including 39 countries and territories where we do not currently have any open hotels. all of the rooms in the pipeline are within our management and franchise segment. over 182,000 rooms in the pipeline, or more than half, are located outside the u.s. additionally, over 174,000 rooms in the pipeline, or more than half, are under construction. we do not consider any individual development project to be material to us. overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry, which spans nearly a century of highly focused customer service and entrepreneurship, evolving for the needs of our customers; our strong, well-defined brands that operate throughout the lodging industry chain scales; and our commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program. we believe that satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and with existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal capital investment from us, puts us in a strong position to further improve our business and serve our customers in the future. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2017 brand (1) chain scale countries/ territories properties rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 12 27 9,579 1.1% four seasons, mandarin oriental, peninsula, ritz carlton, st. regis luxury 24 34 10,709 1.3% fairmont, intercontinental, jw marriott, park hyatt, sofitel upper upscale 2 2 287 % hyatt centric, joie de vivre, kimpton, le m ridien upper upscale 88 578 211,423 24.7% hyatt regency, marriott, renaissance, sheraton, sofitel, westin upper upscale 15 48 10,548 1.2% autograph collection, the unbound collection upscale 41 520 123,773 14.5% crowne plaza, delta, holiday inn, hyatt, radisson, renaissance, sheraton upscale 1 4 467 0.1% ascend collection, tribute portfolio upper upscale 6 245 57,216 6.7% courtyard, hyatt regency, marriott, renaissance, sheraton upscale 37 771 111,438 13.0% aloft, courtyard, four points, holiday inn, hyatt place, springhill suites upper midscale 21 2,338 237,334 27.7% comfort suites, courtyard, fairfield inn, holiday inn express, springhill suites midscale 1 9 911 0.1% best western, comfort inn &amp; suites, la quinta, quality inn, sleep inn upscale 3 451 51,305 6.0% element, hyatt house, residence inn, staybridge suites upper midscale 2 204 21,015 2.5% candlewood suites, hawthorn suites, towneplace suites, woodspring suites timeshare 3 48 8,101 0.9% hyatt residence, marriott vacation club, vistana signature experiences, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes five unbranded properties with 2,009 rooms, representing approximately 0.2 percent of total rooms. hgv has the exclusive right to use our hilton grand vacations brand, subject to the terms of a license agreement with us. (2) the table excludes lesser known regional competitors. 4 waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of 27 luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities; high-end restaurants; golf courses (at resort properties); 24-hour room service; fitness and business centers; meeting, wedding and banquet facilities; and special event and concierge services. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand of 34 hotels and resorts offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities; enticing restaurants; comprehensive room service; fitness and business centers; multi-purpose meeting facilities; and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton represents an energizing, new hotel in the neighborhood offering simple, guest-directed service, thoughtful local choices and comfortable spaces. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture. as of december 31, 2017 , canopy had two properties open and 30 properties in the pipeline. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and one of the most globally recognized hotel brands, with 578 hotels and resorts in 88 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services; restaurants and lounges; food and beverage services; swimming pools; gift shops; retail facilities; and other services. additionally, hilton hotels &amp; resorts was voted the favorite hotel chain in the 2018 globe travel awards. curio a collection by hilton : curio a collection by hilton is created for travelers who seek local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. curio is made up of a collection of hand-picked hotels that retain their unique identity, but are able to leverage the many benefits of the hilton global platform, including our common reservation and customer care service and hilton honors guest loyalty program. as of december 31, 2017 , curio had 48 properties open and 59 properties in the pipeline. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree's 520 hotels and resorts are united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") culture and its iconic warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. doubletree's diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels. tapestry collection by hilton : tapestry collection by hilton, our newest brand, is a curated portfolio of original hotels in the upscale hotel segment that have recognizable features distinct to each hotel. tapestry guests are looking for new experiences and choose to stay where they can expect to never see the same thing twice. travelers can book an independent and reliable stay with confidence knowing these hotels are backed by the hilton name and the award winning hilton honors guest loyalty program. in may 2017, the first tapestry collection by hilton opened in syracuse, new york, just four months after the brand's launch. as of december 31, 2017 , tapestry collection by hilton had four properties open and 24 properties in the pipeline. embassy suites by hilton : embassy suites by hilton comprises 245 upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining or work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. embassy suites' bundled pricing ensures that guests receive all of the amenities our properties have to offer at a single price. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is our award-winning, upscale brand with 771 hotels worldwide. at hilton garden inn, guests find an open, inviting atmosphere with warm, glowing service and simple, thoughtful touches that allow them to relax and recharge. as a recognized leader in food and beverage services, hilton garden inn caters to guests' dining needs by serving cooked-to-order breakfast and offering handcrafted cocktails, shareable small plates and full meals at its on-site restaurants and bars. flexible meeting space, free wi-fi, wireless printing and fitness centers are offered to help guests stay polished and productive. hampton by hilton : hampton by hilton is our moderately priced, upper midscale hotel with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton by hilton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel rooms and suite accommodations within one property. across our over 2,300 hamptons around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the 100% hampton guarantee. 5 tru by hilton: tru by hilton is a new brand designed to be a game changer in the midscale segment. tru was built from a belief that being cost conscious and having a great stay do not have to be mutually exclusive. by focusing on the brand's three key tenets of simplified, spirited and grounded in value, every detail of the property is crafted for operational efficiency and to drive increased guest satisfaction - from the activated, open lobby to the efficiently designed bedrooms. in may 2017, the first tru by hilton property opened in oklahoma city. as of december 31, 2017 , tru had nine properties open and 284 properties in the pipeline. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton is our upscale, extended-stay hotel that features residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. these 451 hotels provide the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton is our upper midscale hotel that provides a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. each of the brand's 204 open hotels offer complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. as of december 31, 2017 , 387 properties were in the pipeline. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of the 48 hilton grand vacations properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our guest loyalty program hilton honors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of brands and our owned, leased, managed and franchised hotels and resorts. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our nearly 5,300 properties worldwide, which are then redeemable for free nights and other goods and services. members can also use points earned to transact with nearly 130 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers, amazon.com and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately 71 million members, a 20 percent increase from december 31, 2016. our hilton honors members represented approximately 57 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues to us and our hotel owners of over $19 billion during the year ended december 31, 2017 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton honors members and collected by us from hotels and resorts in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton honors points redemptions by loyalty members and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. 6 our business as of december 31, 2017 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 1 215 12 5,451 13 5,666 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 142 1 984 2 1,126 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 3 703 3 703 asia pacific 3 723 3 723 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,287 1 319 5 1,606 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 402 1 294 3 696 europe 4 1,155 4 1,155 middle east and africa 1 614 3 1,076 4 1,690 asia pacific 1 164 15 4,630 2 768 18 5,562 canopy by hilton u.s. 1 175 1 175 europe 1 112 1 112 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 65 48,048 179 54,319 244 102,367 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 405 25 9,235 17 5,469 43 15,109 europe 55 14,935 54 16,359 33 9,430 142 40,724 middle east and africa 5 1,998 44 13,427 2 605 51 16,030 asia pacific 7 3,412 84 30,955 7 2,826 98 37,193 curio - a collection by hilton u.s. 4 1,981 26 5,694 30 7,675 americas (excluding u.s.) 7 1,271 7 1,271 europe 2 189 6 764 8 953 middle east and africa 1 201 1 201 asia pacific 2 448 2 448 doubletree by hilton u.s. 37 12,241 301 71,450 338 83,691 americas (excluding u.s.) 4 809 21 4,351 25 5,160 europe 11 2,915 81 13,984 92 16,899 middle east and africa 10 2,350 4 488 14 2,838 asia pacific 49 14,220 2 965 51 15,185 tapestry collection by hilton u.s. 4 467 4 467 embassy suites by hilton u.s. 44 11,568 193 43,659 237 55,227 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 667 5 1,322 8 1,989 hilton garden inn u.s. 4 430 634 87,739 638 88,169 americas (excluding u.s.) 8 1,084 36 5,594 44 6,678 europe 21 3,870 38 6,230 59 10,100 middle east and africa 7 1,574 7 1,574 asia pacific 23 4,917 23 4,917 hampton by hilton u.s. 47 5,806 2,097 204,936 2,144 210,742 americas (excluding u.s.) 13 1,677 89 10,651 102 12,328 europe 15 2,439 52 8,016 67 10,455 asia pacific 25 3,809 25 3,809 tru by hilton u.s. 9 911 9 911 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 21 2,241 410 46,786 431 49,027 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 358 17 1,920 20 2,278 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 201 20,698 201 20,698 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 317 3 317 other 4 1,759 1 250 5 2,009 lodging 73 22,206 656 208,235 4,507 617,573 5,236 848,014 hilton grand vacations 48 8,101 48 8,101 total 73 22,206 656 208,235 4,555 625,674 5,284 856,115 ____________ (1) includes properties owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. 7 we operate our business under a management and franchise segment and an ownership segment. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note 19 : " business segments " in "part ii item 8. financial statements and supplementary data." management and franchise through our management and franchise segment, we manage hotels and license our brands. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our commercial services to support their hotel properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management contracts for the benefit of third parties who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management contracts vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee, which is based on a percentage of the hotel's gross revenue, and, when applicable, an incentive management fee, which is typically based on a percentage of hotel operating profits. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly fee based on a percentage of the hotel's gross room revenue, or other usage fees, which covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; the costs of internet, technology and reservation systems; and quality assurance program expenses. owners are also responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2017 , we managed 656 hotels with 208,235 rooms, excluding our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. the initial terms of our management contracts for full service hotels are typically 20 to 30 years . in certain cases, when we have entered into a franchise contract in addition to a management contract, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. extension options for our management contracts are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full service hotels. typically, these contracts contain one or two extension options that are for either five or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party's option or by mutual agreement. in the case of our management contracts with park, assuming we exercise all renewal periods, the total term of the management contracts will range from 30 to 70 years. some of our management contracts provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. franchising we license our brand names, trademarks and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise contracts. we do not own, manage or operate franchised hotels and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained. for new franchised hotels (both new construction and conversions of existing hotels from other brands), we approve the location, as well as the plans for the facilities to ensure the hotels meet our brand standards. for existing franchised hotels, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed to keep the hotels in compliance with our brand standards so they can remain in our hotel system. occasionally, we may have a franchise contract and a management contract in place at the same property, in which case we are both the franchisor and the manager of that property. we also earn license fees from a license agreement with hgv and co-brand credit card arrangements for the use of certain hilton marks and intellectual property. as of december 31, 2017 , we franchised 4,555 properties with 625,674 rooms. each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee in conjunction with the inception of a franchise contract. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's gross room revenue and, in some cases, a percentage of food and beverage revenue. additionally, the franchisees pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the hotel's gross room revenue that covers the costs of certain advertising and marketing programs, internet, technology and reservation systems, and quality assurance programs (among other things) that benefit the brand. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. 8 our franchise contracts for new construction hotels and our franchise contracts with park typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years. our franchise contracts for converted hotels have initial terms of approximately 10 to 20 years . at the expiration of the initial term, we may have a contractual right or obligation to relicense the hotel to the franchisee, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. our franchise contracts with park cannot be extended without our consent. we have the right to terminate a franchise contract upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise contract is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. ownership as of december 31, 2017 , our ownership segment consisted of 73 hotels with 22,206 rooms that we owned or leased or that are owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest. as a hotel owner, we focus on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, maximizing hotel revenues, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to asset management, we develop and execute on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance their market position and, at many of our hotels, we invest in renovating guest rooms and public spaces and adding or enhancing meeting and retail space to improve profitability. competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential and resort manager, franchisor, owner and developer. competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility; location; level of service; quality of accommodations; amenities; food and beverage options and outlets; public and meeting spaces and other guest services; consistency of service; room rate; brand reputation; and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor and owner of hotels with an associated system-wide guest loyalty platform helps us succeed as one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale, our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., carlson rezidor group, choice hotels international, hongkong and shanghai hotels, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international and wyndham worldwide corporation. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our hotels and resorts experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon their location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical, and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in the development and supply of and demand for hotel rooms, occupancy levels and room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result of such fixed costs, in a negative economic environment, the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. 9 government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise contracts and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular jurisdiction. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employees, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. finally, as an international owner, manager and franchisor of properties in 105 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws and tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences. in addition, our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to additional laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the united kingdom's ("u.k.") bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of waste that we generate, including at locations where such waste has been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination pursuant to our management or franchise contracts, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an on-going operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and managed properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. 10 insurance u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in certain of our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners. if not participating in our programs, hotel owners must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs, but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. foreign managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. in addition, our management and franchise contracts typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of hotels owned by such third parties. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks, and we believe such risks are prudent for us to assume. our third-party insurance policies provide coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insurance retentions or deductible obligations. we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned and leased hotels, and we maintain workers' compensation coverage for all of our team members. in addition, through our captive insurance subsidiary, we participate in a reinsurance arrangement that provides coverage for a certain portion of our deductibles. in general, our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. corporate responsibility the success of our business is linked to the success of communities in which our hotels operate - from the local owners who partner with us to build hotels, to the local talent that operate the hotels, to the local economies and businesses our hotels support through sourcing products serving guests. travel with purpose, our corporate responsibility strategy, is a holistic approach that leverages our global footprint and scale coupled with local insights and partnerships to address global and local challenges. our strategy was developed by mapping social and environmental issues that are impacted by our business and will continue to be critical to our long-term success. we ranked the issues based on our influence and the relative importance to our business operations and stakeholder groups. we also engaged with both internal and external stakeholders to identify interests and concerns that should be taken into consideration as we continue to grow. we revisited our materiality results in 2015 and based on these results, we have identified the priority issue areas for our corporate responsibility efforts and forthcoming goals and targets. creating shared value for hotel employees, guests, owners, communities and overall business is a strategic priority we strive to achieve by focusing on advancing three priority, material issue areas: creating opportunities - youth opportunity, great place to work, inclusive economies: we have a passion and a responsibility to invest in current and future employees. we open doors that help individuals build meaningful job and life skills through the hospitality industry. strengthening communities - skills-based volunteering, human rights, disaster support: we encourage and enable our employees to deliver hospitality to our communities. we are committed to having a positive economic and social impact on the millions of communities and lives we touch. preserving environment - climate changes, energy, carbon, water, waste, responsible sourcing: as environmental stewards for the wellbeing of people and ecosystems in our communities, we protect the environment through efficient and responsible operations and sourcing. hilton has achieved a company-wide certification to iso 14001 (environmental management) and iso 50001 (energy management) standards. lightstay , our proprietary corporate responsibility performance measurement platform, is a global brand standard that allows us to manage the impact of our hotels on the environment and global community through the measurement, analysis and improvement of our use of natural resources, opportunities created and community service. this year, for the first time, hilton was named to the dow jones sustainability index north america as an industry leader across economic, social and environmental criteria. history hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. in 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas. through our predecessors, we commenced corporate operations in 1946. 11 employees as of december 31, 2017 , more than 163,000 people were employed at our managed, owned and leased properties and at our corporate locations. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 31 percent of our employees globally (or 35 percent of our employees in the u.s.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at newsroom.hilton.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also read and copy any filed document at the sec's public reference room in washington, d.c. at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. please call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for further information about public reference rooms. we maintain an internet site at newsroom.hilton.com. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including employee compensation and benefits, energy, insurance and food; increases in costs due to inflation or other factors that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers; the quality of services provided by franchisees; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; 12 delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture contracts; cyclical over-building in the hotel industry; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services, including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at our hotels. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; governmental action and uncertainty resulting from u.s. and global political trends and policies, including potential barriers to travel, trade and immigration; war, political instability or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes; conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, zika, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars), h1n1 (swine flu) and middle east respiratory syndrome (mers); cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes (e.g., hurricanes harvey, irma and maria in 2017), typhoons, floods, wildfires, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; and 13 organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased properties. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters with the fourth quarter generally being the highest. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full service and focused service hotels, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators, home and apartment sharing services and timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater commercial, financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively, or they could offer a type of lodging product that customers find attractive but that we do not offer. competition for management and franchise contracts we compete to enter into management and franchise contracts. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our contracts and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise contracts could be reduced. 14 any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and their ability to make payments to us for our services may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events at our hotels and resorts can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity. we also could face legal claims related to negative events, along with resulting adverse publicity. a perceived decline in the quality of our brands or damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party property owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise contracts, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new and renew management and franchise contracts. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the contracts under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hotel industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise contracts or enter into new contracts on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise contracts, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. while we maintain certain contractual protections, repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise contract or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to buy, develop and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing pipeline and limit additional development to further expand our hotel portfolio. 15 if our third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise contracts, as well as our license agreement with hgv, require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands, which include requirements related to the physical condition, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise contracts require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a property owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate contracts even where the contracts do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2017 , we had a total of 2,257 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have contracts are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing and obtaining governmental or regulatory approvals. as a result, not every hotel in our development pipeline may develop into a new hotel that enters our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. since 2011, we have opened hotels under five new brands: home2 suites by hilton; curio - a collection by hilton; canopy by hilton; tru by hilton; and, most recently, tapestry collection by hilton. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states over the past several years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the risks resulting from investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. our investments in owned and leased real property subject us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; loss in value of real estate due to changes in market conditions or the area in which real estate is located; 16 fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for capital improvements and expenditures funded by us to maintain or upgrade properties and contractual requirements to deliver properties back to landlords in a particular state of repair and condition at the end of a lease term; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with any mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; contingent liabilities that exist after we have exited a property; costs linked to the employment and management of staff to run and operate an owned or leased property; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned or leased properties because we, as the owner or lessee, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned and leased property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed many years ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods or tsunamis, or acts of terrorism; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property 17 as it now exists, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations and the operation of the hilton honors guest loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. although we are migrating portions of our operations to cloud-based providers while simultaneously building and operating new applications and services with those cloud-based providers, any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we transfer production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. 18 we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer malware, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and our third-party service providers experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are difficult to detect for long periods of time, and we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. in november 2015, we announced that we had identified and taken action to eradicate unauthorized malware that targeted payment card information in some point-of-sale systems in our hotels and had determined that specific payment card information was targeted by this malware. we expect we will be subject to additional cyber-attacks in the future and may experience data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual or other requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other costs or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which becomes effective in may 2018 and replaces the current data protection laws of each eu member state, requires companies to meet new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data, and failure to meet the gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4 percent of worldwide revenue. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. in addition, states and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our guest loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as 19 needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as third-party alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we also may divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns or otherwise fail to achieve the benefits we expect. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email and social media marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws and court or agency interpretation of such laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu gdpr, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our business. if these bookings increase, certain hospitality intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. these hospitality intermediaries also may reduce these bookings by de-ranking our hotels in search results on their platforms, and other online providers may divert business away from our hotels. although our contracts with many hospitality intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to 20 renegotiate these contracts upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites, which increases costs to hotels in our system. internet travel intermediaries also have been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual leisure consumers or "transient" business rather than "group" business for meetings and events, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to group business and also to corporate transient business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and corporate transient business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and corporate transient business. consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, or the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online, by telephone to our call centers, through devices via our mobile application, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton honors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton honors guest loyalty program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise contracts. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the loyalty member's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton honors arranges with third parties, such as airlines, other transportation services, online vendors, retailers and credit card companies, to sell honors points for the use of their customers and/or to allow honors members to use or exchange points for products or services. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton honors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 105 countries and territories around the world. our operations outside the united states represented approximately 23 percent , 28 percent and 31 percent of our revenues for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. we expect that revenues from our international operations will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenues. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic or political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; 21 the effect of disruptions caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or the effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from the u.k.'s june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as "brexit"); uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues earned from and the market value of properties that we own or lease located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the fcpa, as well as trade sanctions administered by the ofac. the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we manage or own in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to or receive funds from persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. 22 under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra. in addition, because the sec defines the term "affiliate" broadly, we may be deemed to be an affiliate of hna or hna's affiliates or blackstone or blackstone's affiliates. other affiliates of hna or blackstone have in the past or may in the future be required to make disclosures pursuant to itrshra. disclosure of such activities, even if such activities are permissible under applicable law, and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, significant customers, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 31 percent ) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 15 percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage employees. we employ or manage more than 163,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to staff and manage the hotels that we manage, own and lease could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. 23 any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have nearly 5,900 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other intellectual property. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we have granted hgv the right to use certain of our marks and intellectual property in its timeshare business and we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if hgv, a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other contracts to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; limit our ability to develop new intellectual property; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other contracts may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. 24 exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions. however, these hedging agreements may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses exists, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and/or we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates such as those natural disasters that occurred in 2017. we anticipate increased costs of property insurance across the portfolio in 2018 due to the significant losses that insurers suffered globally in 2017. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the "program") to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2020, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. 25 the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2005 through december 31, 2013 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton honors guest loyalty program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $874 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. see note 14 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate our intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying 26 amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hotel industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. in addition, the national labor relations board has revised its standard for joint employee relationships, which could increase our risk of being considered a joint employer with our franchisees. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise contract and negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. our obligations under this settlement expired in march 2015 except that certain managed and franchised hotels that were required to conduct surveys of their facilities remain under an obligation to remove architectural barriers at their facilities through march 15, 2022 and we have an obligation to have an independent consultant to monitor those barrier removal efforts during this period. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects that could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 27 casinos featured on certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic and political conditions; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including puerto rico and egypt, have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits or disputes involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our spin-offs we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-offs. although we believe that separating our ownership business and our timeshare business by means of the spin-offs has provided financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our stockholders, the spin-offs may not provide results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. for example, if the statutory and regulatory requirements relating to reits are not met by park, the benefits of spinning off the ownership business may be reduced or may be unavailable to us, our stockholders and stockholders of park. if we do not realize the intended benefits of the spin-offs, we or the businesses that were spun off could suffer a material adverse effect on our or their business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the spin-offs could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received a private letter ruling from the irs on certain issues relevant to qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). although the private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, the continued validity of the private letter ruling will be based upon and subject to the accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the irs by us. further, the private letter ruling is limited to specified aspects of the spin-offs under section 355 of the code and does not represent a determination by the irs that all of the requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock and to us have been satisfied. moreover, if any statement or representation upon which the private letter ruling was based was incorrect or untrue in any material respect, 28 or if the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts that prevailed at the time of the spin-offs, the private letter ruling could be invalidated. the opinion of tax counsel we received in connection with the spin-offs regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the code similarly relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spun-off companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. additionally, recently enacted legislation denies tax-free treatment to a spin-off in which either the distributing corporation or the spun-off corporation is a reit and prevents a distributing corporation or a spun-off corporation from electing reit status for a 10-year period following a tax-free spin-off. under an effective date provision, the legislation does not apply to distributions described in a ruling request initially submitted to the irs before december 7, 2015. because our initial request for the private letter ruling was submitted before that date and because we believe the distribution has been described in that initial request, we believe the legislation does not apply to the spin-off of park. however, no ruling was obtained on that issue and thus no assurance can be given in that regard. in particular, the irs or a court could disagree with our view regarding the effective date provision based on any differences that exist between the description in the ruling request and the actual facts relating to the spin-offs. if the legislation applied to the spin-off of park, either the spin-off would not qualify for tax-free treatment or park would not be eligible to elect reit status for a 10-year period following the spin-off. if the spin-offs and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, the company would be subject to a substantial tax liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-offs were taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of park and hgv would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. park or hgv may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that we have executed as part of the spin-offs. in connection with the spin-offs, we, park and hgv entered into a distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and, as to park, management agreements, and, as to hgv, a license agreement. certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other following the spin-offs. we are relying on park and hgv to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. in addition, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us, park and hgv and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to park and to hgv, particularly if park or hgv were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. the impact of any of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could cause reputational harm and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us for certain liabilities. these indemnities may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by park and hgv, and park and hgv may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us with respect to such parties' assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or other agreements related to the spin-offs. there can be no assurance that the indemnities from each of park and hgv will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities. third parties also could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that park and hgv have agreed to assume. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from park or hgv any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are required to indemnify park or hgv in connection with the spin-offs, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, which could negatively affect our financial results. pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs and certain other agreements among park and hgv and us, we agreed to indemnify each of park and hgv from certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide park and/or hgv may be significant and could negatively affect our business. 29 risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2017 , our total indebtedness, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs and discounts, was approximately $6.7 billion , and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt for the years ending december 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, were $54 million , $55 million and $57 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures or dividends to stockholders and to pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indentures that govern our senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; 30 merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 30 percent of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.0 to 1.0. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to pay dividends to our stockholders will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. finally, our ability to raise additional equity capital may be restricted by the stockholders agreement we entered into with hgv and certain entities affiliated with blackstone that is intended to preserve the tax-free status of the spin-offs of park and hgv. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding three risk factors would increase. 31 risks related to ownership of our common stock the interests of certain of our stockholders may conflict with ours or yours in the future. hna, which purchased 25 percent of our common stock from blackstone in march 2017, beneficially owned approximately 26.0 percent of our common stock as of december 31, 2017 as a result of our share repurchases lowering our total number of shares outstanding. blackstone and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 5.4 percent of our common stock as of december 31, 2017 . moreover, under our by-laws and each stockholders' agreement with hna and blackstone, for so long as hna or blackstone, as applicable, retains specified levels of ownership of us, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by them. thus, for so long as hna and blackstone continue to own specified percentages of our stock, each will be able to influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. accordingly, during that period of time, each of hna and blackstone may have influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. for example, for so long as hna or blackstone continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, hna or blackstone may be able to influence whether or not a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors occurs. the concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. each of hna and blackstone and its respective affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in the hospitality industry. in the ordinary course of their business activities, each of hna and blackstone and their respective affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with ours or those of our stockholders. for example, hna acquired carlson hotels in december 2016 and owns an interest in nh hotel group. blackstone owns interests in la quinta holdings inc. and certain other investments in the hospitality industry and may pursue ventures that compete directly or indirectly with us. in addition, affiliates of hna and blackstone directly and indirectly own hotels that we manage or franchise, and they may in the future enter into other transactions with us, including hotel development projects, that could result in their having interests that could conflict with ours. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of blackstone, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his or her director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. under our stockholders agreement with hna, we agreed to renounce any interest or expectancy, or right to be offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity or corporate opportunity presented to hna or its affiliates. hna or blackstone also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may be unavailable to us. in addition, hna or blackstone may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their respective investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we may change our dividend policy at any time. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. future issuances of common stock by us, and the availability for resale of shares held by certain investors, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. blackstone owned approximately 5.4 percent and hna owned approximately 26.0 percent of our outstanding common stock as of december 31, 2017 . pursuant to registration rights agreements, blackstone and certain management stockholders have, and hna will have, the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the securities act covering resales of our common stock held by them. these shares also may be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act, depending on their holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. hna is subject to specified transfer restrictions pursuant to the terms of a stockholders agreement with us. those restrictions are subject to specified exceptions, including in connection with margin loan arrangements and any proposed transfers that a majority of the disinterested members of our board of directors may approve. each of hna and blackstone has pledged 32 substantially all of the shares of our common stock held by it pursuant to margin loan arrangements and any foreclosure upon those shares could result in sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our by-laws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect future income, cash flows and the fair value of the company, depending on changes to interest rates or foreign exchange rates. in certain situations, we may seek to reduce cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into financial arrangements intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. we continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. we enter into derivative financial arrangements to the extent they meet the objectives described above, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable-rate debt, and on our fixed-rate debt to the extent that the interest rate affects its fair value. we are most vulnerable to changes in one-month libor, as the interest rate on our variable-rate debt is based on this index. we use interest rate swaps in order to maintain a level of exposure to interest rate variability that we deem acceptable, and as of december 31, 2017, we held two interest rate swaps which swap one-month libor on the term loans to fixed rates. we elected to designate these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. the following table sets forth the contractual maturities and the total fair values as of december 31, 2017 for our financial instruments that are materially affected by interest rate risk, including long-term debt and interest rate swaps. for long-term debt, the table presents contractual maturities and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. fixed rates are the weighted average actual rates and variable rates are the weighted average market rates prevailing as of december 31, 2017 for the interest rate hedges in place. maturities by period 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter carrying value fair value (in millions, excluding interest rates) long-term debt: fixed-rate long-term debt (1)(2) $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,462 $ 2,462 $ 2,575 weighted average interest rate (3) 4.54 % variable-rate long-term debt (2) $ 32 $ 32 $ 32 $ 32 $ 32 $ 3,726 $ 3,886 $ 3,954 weighted average interest rate (3) 3.55 % interest rate swaps: variable to fixed (4) $ $ $ $ $ 2,350 $ $ 2,350 $ 11 variable interest rate payable (5) 3.55 % fixed interest rate receivable (6) 1.99 % ____________ (1) excludes capital lease obligations with a carrying value of $233 million and debt of certain consolidated vies with a carrying value of $21 million as of december 31, 2017 . (2) carrying value includes unamortized deferred financing costs and discount. (3) weighted average interest rate as of december 31, 2017 . (4) the carrying value balance reflects the notional amount. we measure our derivative instruments at fair value. (5) represents the estimated interest rate payable. (6) represents the interest rate receivable. refer to note 11 : " derivative instruments and hedging activities " and note 12 : " fair value measurements " in our consolidated financial statements for additional information of the fair value measurements of our derivatives and financial assets and liabilities, respectively. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in various currencies and are exposed to earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our principal exposure results from management and franchise fees earned in foreign currencies and revenues from our international leased hotels, partially offset by foreign operating expenses, the value of which could change materially in reference to our reporting currency, usd. we also have exposure from our international financial assets and liabilities, including certain intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested, the value of which could change materially in reference to the functional currencies of the exposed entities. as of december 31, 2017 , our largest net exposures were to the euro, gbp and aud. 59 we use forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges to offset exposure from foreign currency exchange rate risks associated with our euro and yen denominated management and franchise fees. we use short-term foreign exchange forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments to offset exposure to cash balances denominated in foreign currencies. however, the fair value and earnings effect of these derivatives are not material to our consolidated financial statements. 60risk factors 13 risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used and basis of presentation in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with all of its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties" and "rooms" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties managed, franchised, owned or leased by us, while references to "hotels" excludes timeshare properties. on january 3, 2017, we completed the spin-offs of a portfolio of hotels and resorts, as well as our timeshare business, into two independent, publicly traded companies: park hotels &amp; resorts inc. ("park") and hilton grand vacations inc. ("hgv"), respectively, (the "spin-offs"). hilton did not retain any interest in park or hgv, but did enter into long-term management and franchise contracts with park for the portfolio of hotels and resorts held by it at the time of the spin-offs and a license agreement with hgv for the timeshare business. see "part i item 1a. risk factors" included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. this annual report on form 10-k presents our business and results of operations as of and for the periods indicated, giving effect to the spin-offs, with the combined historical financial results of park and hgv reflected as discontinued operations. reference to "average daily rate" or "adr" represents hotel room revenue divided by the total number of room nights sold for a given period, and reference to "revenue per available room" or "revpar" represents hotel room revenue divided by the total number of room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, a provision for income taxes and depreciation and amortization, or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for additional information on these financial metrics. social media we use our website at newsroom.hilton.com, our facebook page at facebook.com/hiltonnewsroom and our corporate twitter account at twitter.com/hiltonnewsroom as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, our filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec") and our webcasts. the contents of our website and social media channels are not, however, part of this report. item 1. business overview hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 5,685 properties comprising 912,960 rooms in 113 countries and territories as of december 31, 2018 . for nearly 100 years, hilton has been an innovator in its industry, driven by the vision of our founder conrad hilton, "to fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality." our premier brand portfolio includes: our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, lxr hotels &amp; 2 resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton; our full service hotel brands, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, curio collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton, tapestry collection by hilton and embassy suites by hilton; our focused service hotel brands, motto by hilton, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, tru by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton; and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. in 2018, we launched two new brands: motto by hilton and lxr hotels &amp; resorts. see " our brand portfolio," for additional information. as of december 31, 2018 , we had over 85 million members in our award-winning guest loyalty program, hilton honors. we operate our business through a management and franchise segment and an ownership segment, each of which is managed separately because of its distinct economic characteristics. the management and franchise segment includes all of the hotels we manage for third-party owners, as well as all franchised hotels operated or managed by someone other than us. the management and franchise segment generates its revenue from: (i) management and franchise fees charged to third-party hotel owners; (ii) license fees for the exclusive right to use certain hilton marks and intellectual property ("ip"); and (iii) fees for managing our owned and leased hotels. as of december 31, 2018 , this segment included 689 managed hotels and 4,874 franchised hotels consisting of 882,873 total rooms. as of december 31, 2018 , the ownership segment included 71 properties totaling 21,720 rooms, comprising 62 hotels that we wholly owned or leased, one hotel owned by a consolidated non-wholly owned entity, two hotels leased by consolidated variable interest entities ("vies") and six hotels owned or leased by unconsolidated affiliates. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations segment results" and note 19 : " business segments " in "part ii item 8. financial statements and supplementary data." in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business by expanding our share in the global hospitality industry through our development pipeline. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , we opened over 450 hotels consisting of more than 66,000 rooms, contributing to nearly 57,000 net rooms growth in our system during the year. additionally, during the year ended december 31, 2018, nearly 110,000 new rooms were approved for development and added to our development pipeline. as of december 31, 2018 , we had more than 2,400 hotels in our development pipeline that we expect to add as open hotels in our system, representing over 364,000 rooms under construction or approved for development throughout 103 countries and territories, including 35 countries and territories where we do not currently have any open hotels. all of the rooms in the development pipeline are within our management and franchise segment. additionally, 195,000 rooms in the development pipeline were located outside the u.s., and 184,000 rooms in the development pipeline, or more than half, were under construction. we do not consider any individual development project to be material to us. overall, we believe that our experience in the hospitality industry, which spans nearly a century of customer service and entrepreneurship, and continues to evolve for the tastes, preferences and demands of our hotel guests; our strong, well-defined brands that operate throughout the hospitality industry chain scales; and our commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program. we believe that satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for us and our hotel owners and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands with both existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal capital investment from us, positions us to further improve our business and serve our customers in the future. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2018 brand (1) chain scale countries/ territories properties rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 14 31 10,502 1.2% four seasons, mandarin oriental, peninsula, ritz carlton, rosewood hotels &amp; resorts, st. regis luxury 1 1 234 % leading hotels of the world, legend preferred hotels &amp; resorts, small luxury hotels of the world, the luxury collection luxury 22 33 10,625 1.2% fairmont, intercontinental, jw marriott, park hyatt, sofitel upper upscale 4 8 1,244 0.1% hyatt centric, joie de vivre, kimpton, le m ridien upper upscale 94 586 215,623 23.6% hyatt regency, marriott, renaissance, sheraton, sofitel, westin upper upscale 22 68 13,569 1.5% autograph collection, the unbound collection upscale 45 559 130,714 14.3% crowne plaza, delta, holiday inn, radisson, sheraton, wyndham upscale 1 18 2,559 0.3% tribute portfolio upper upscale 6 253 58,858 6.4% hyatt regency, marriott, sheraton, westin upper midscale % citizenm, freehand, moxy, yotel upscale 40 815 118,675 13.0% aloft, courtyard, four points, holiday inn, hyatt place upper midscale 25 2,433 250,310 27.4% comfort suites, courtyard, fairfield inn, holiday inn express, springhill suites midscale 1 53 5,019 0.6% best western, comfort inn &amp; suites, la quinta, quality inn, sleep inn upscale 3 482 54,836 6.0% element, hyatt house, residence inn, staybridge suites upper midscale 2 290 30,125 3.3% candlewood suites, comfort suites, towneplace suites timeshare 4 51 8,367 0.9% hyatt residence, marriott vacation club, vistana signature experiences, wyndham vacations resorts ____________ (1) the table above excludes four unbranded properties with 1,700 rooms, representing approximately 0.2 percent of total rooms. hgv has the exclusive right to use our hilton grand vacations brand, subject to the terms of a license agreement with us. (2) the table excludes lesser-known regional competitors. 4 waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today a portfolio of luxury hotels and resorts. in landmark destinations around the world, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities; high-end restaurants; golf courses at our resort properties; 24-hour room service; fitness and business centers; meeting, wedding and banquet facilities; and special event and concierge services. lxr hotels &amp; resorts: found in some of the world's most alluring locations, lxr hotels &amp; resorts immerse guests in truly profound travel experiences. lxr connects legendary luxury properties into a network of hotels offering singular service and remarkable experiences. in 2018, the first lxr hotel opened in dubai. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the conrad concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. properties typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities; enticing restaurants; comprehensive room service; fitness and business centers; multi-purpose meeting facilities; and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton is an energizing lifestyle hotel in the neighborhood. our guests are explorers who seek uncomplicated comfort, thoughtful details, an energizing atmosphere and a uniquely local experience. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture delivering an authentic neighborhood experience with a boutique hotel feel. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : hilton is our global flagship brand and one of the most globally recognized hotel brands, with hotels and resorts in 94 countries and territories across six continents. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels are full service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services; restaurants and lounges; food and beverage services; swimming pools; gift shops; retail facilities; and other services. additionally, hilton hotels &amp; resorts was voted the favorite hotel chain in the 2018 globe travel awards. curio collection by hilton : curio collection by hilton is created for travelers who seek local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. the collection is made up of hand-picked hotels that retain their unique identity or story, featuring elevated food and beverage experiences, and are able to leverage the many benefits of the hilton global platform, including our common reservation and customer care service and hilton honors guest loyalty program. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is an upscale, full service hotel designed to provide a comfortable and relaxed environment for today's business and leisure travelers. doubletree's hotels and resorts are united by the brand's care ("creating a rewarding experience") service culture that all starts with its signature welcome and iconic warm chocolate chip cookie. doubletree's diverse portfolio allows for flexibility with a variety of hotel and location types including historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts, suburban locations and both small and large urban markets. tapestry collection by hilton : tapestry collection by hilton, which launched in 2017, is a portfolio of upscale, unique hotels that caters to guests seeking original and authentic experiences. every tapestry collection property has its own unique style, while giving travelers the peace of mind and reassurance associated with the hilton name, in addition to the benefits of the award-winning hilton honors guest loyalty program. embassy suites by hilton : embassy suites by hilton is the upscale all-suites hotel brand that delivers inclusive value. all guests are welcomed with spacious two-room suites with separate areas to work and play, plus free made-to-order breakfast daily and complimentary drinks and snacks every night. motto by hilton : motto by hilton is a micro-hotel with an urban vibe in prime global locations. it is hilton's new affordable urban lifestyle brand that empowers guests by giving them the freedom to create their own experiences in the world's most sought-after cities. motto combines comfort and accessibility with travel and lifestyle trends centered around location, value and experience. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is an award-winning brand where guests find an open, inviting atmosphere with warm, glowing service and simple, thoughtful touches that allow them to relax and recharge. as a recognized leader in food and beverage services, hilton garden inn caters to guests' dining needs by serving cooked-to-order breakfast and offering handcrafted cocktails, shareable small plates and full meals at its on-site restaurants and bars. flexible meeting space, free wi-fi, wireless printing and fitness centers are offered to help guests stay polished and productive. 5 hampton by hilton : hampton by hilton is our moderately priced brand with limited food and beverage facilities. the hampton by hilton brand also includes hampton inn &amp; suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel rooms and suite accommodations within one property. at our hamptons around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the 100% hampton guarantee. tru by hilton: tru by hilton is a brand designed to be a game changer in the midscale segment. tru was built from a belief that being cost conscious and having a great stay do not have to be mutually exclusive. by focusing on the brand's three key tenets of simplified, spirited and grounded in value, every detail of the property is crafted for operational efficiency and to drive increased guest satisfaction from the activated, open lobby to the efficiently designed bedrooms. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton is the upscale extended-stay hotel brand that delivers the comforts of home with the added conveniences of a hotel. every room is a spacious suite featuring a fully equipped kitchen suitable for stays of any length. a free, full hot breakfast is served daily, along with complimentary drinks and bites monday through thursday. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton provides a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. each of the brand's hotels offers complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of the hilton grand vacations properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our guest loyalty program hilton honors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of brands at our managed, franchised, owned and leased hotels and resorts. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our nearly 5,700 properties worldwide, which are then redeemable for free nights and other goods and services. members can also use points earned to transact with nearly 75 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers, amazon.com and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to over 85 million members, a 20 percent increase from december 31, 2017 . affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton honors members and collected by us from hotels and resorts in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton honors points redemptions by loyalty members and to pay for administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. 6 our business as of december 31, 2018 , our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 1 215 14 5,956 15 6,171 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 142 1 984 2 1,126 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 4 949 4 949 asia pacific 4 895 4 895 lxr hotels &amp; resorts middle east and africa 1 234 1 234 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 4 1,289 1 319 5 1,608 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 402 2 402 europe 4 1,155 4 1,155 middle east and africa 1 614 2 993 3 1,607 asia pacific 1 164 17 5,035 1 654 19 5,853 canopy by hilton u.s. 5 831 5 831 europe 2 263 2 263 asia pacific 1 150 1 150 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 67 48,780 177 54,082 244 102,862 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 405 26 9,320 21 7,066 48 16,791 europe 53 14,424 49 15,440 36 10,182 138 40,046 middle east and africa 5 1,998 42 12,607 3 1,609 50 16,214 asia pacific 7 3,437 92 33,447 7 2,826 106 39,710 curio collection by hilton u.s. 4 1,981 34 7,253 38 9,234 americas (excluding u.s.) 10 1,669 10 1,669 europe 3 270 10 1,072 13 1,342 middle east and africa 2 255 1 356 3 611 asia pacific 3 663 1 50 4 713 doubletree by hilton u.s. 35 11,791 316 73,948 351 85,739 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 494 24 5,231 27 5,725 europe 12 3,347 93 15,966 105 19,313 middle east and africa 10 2,350 6 718 16 3,068 asia pacific 57 15,797 3 1,072 60 16,869 tapestry collection by hilton u.s. 18 2,559 18 2,559 embassy suites by hilton u.s. 42 11,110 202 45,548 244 56,658 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 667 6 1,533 9 2,200 hilton garden inn u.s. 5 537 655 90,603 660 91,140 americas (excluding u.s.) 12 1,663 39 6,177 51 7,840 europe 21 3,826 43 7,182 64 11,008 middle east and africa 10 2,251 1 175 11 2,426 asia pacific 29 6,261 29 6,261 hampton by hilton u.s. 46 5,641 2,140 209,300 2,186 214,941 americas (excluding u.s.) 13 1,677 92 10,923 105 12,600 europe 18 2,956 63 9,873 81 12,829 middle east and africa 1 420 1 420 asia pacific 60 9,520 60 9,520 tru by hilton u.s. 53 5,019 53 5,019 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 19 2,016 439 50,103 458 52,119 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 358 21 2,359 24 2,717 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 2 198 283 29,384 285 29,582 americas (excluding u.s.) 5 543 5 543 other 3 1,450 1 250 4 1,700 hotels 71 21,720 689 215,437 4,874 667,436 5,634 904,593 hilton grand vacations 51 8,367 51 8,367 total 71 21,720 689 215,437 4,925 675,803 5,685 912,960 ____________ (1) includes properties owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling financial interest. 7 management and franchise we manage hotels and license our brands through our management and franchise segment. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners, as well as from fees associated with license agreements. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our commercial services to support their properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management contracts for the benefit of third parties who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management contracts vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee, which is typically based on a percentage of the hotel's monthly gross revenue, and, when applicable, an incentive management fee, which is typically based on a percentage of the hotel's operating profits. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly program fee based on the underlying hotel's sales or usage, which covers the costs of: (i) advertising and marketing programs; (ii) internet, technology and reservation systems; and (iii) quality assurance program expenses. owners are also responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2018 , we managed 689 hotels with 215,437 rooms, excluding hotels included in our ownership segment. the initial terms of our management contracts are typically 20 to 30 years . in certain cases, we are both the franchisor and manager of the hotel, when we enter into a franchise contract in addition to a management contract, and we classify the hotel as managed in our portfolio. extension options for our management contracts are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full service hotels. typically, these contracts contain one or two extension options that are for either five or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management contracts provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. franchising we license our brand names, trademarks and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise contracts. we do not own, manage or operate franchised properties and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards that we establish are maintained. for newly franchised hotels, including both new construction and conversions of existing hotels from other brands, we approve the location, as well as the plans for the facilities to ensure the hotels meet our brand standards. for existing franchised hotels, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed to keep the hotels in compliance with our brand standards, so that they can remain in our hotel system. we also earn license fees from a license agreement with hgv and co-brand credit card arrangements for the use of certain hilton marks and ip. each franchisee pays us an application, initiation or other fee in conjunction with the inception of a franchise contract. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's monthly gross room revenue and, in some cases, a percentage of gross food and beverage revenues and other revenues, as applicable. additionally, the franchisees generally pay a monthly program fee based on the underlying hotel's sales or usage, which covers the costs of: (i) advertising and marketing programs; (ii) internet, technology and reservation systems; and (iii) quality assurance program expenses. franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2018 , we franchised 4,925 properties with 675,803 rooms. our franchise contracts typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new hotels and approximately 10 to 20 years for converted hotels. at the expiration of the initial term, we may have a contractual right or obligation to relicense the hotel to the franchisee for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise contract upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. if a franchise contract 8 is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. we have no legal responsibility for the employees or the liabilities associated with operating franchised properties. ownership as a hotel owner and lessee, we focus on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, maximizing hotel revenues, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to hotel and asset management, we develop and execute on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance their market position and, at many of our hotels, we invest in renovating guest rooms and public spaces and adding or enhancing meeting and retail space to improve profitability. as of december 31, 2018 , our ownership segment consisted of 71 hotels with 21,720 rooms that we owned or leased or that are owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling financial interest. competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel and resort manager, franchisor and owner. competition in the hospitality industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility; location; level of service; quality of accommodations; amenities; food and beverage options and outlets; public and meeting spaces and other guest services; consistency of service; room rate; brand reputation; and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor and owner of hotels with an associated system-wide guest loyalty and commercial platform helps us succeed as one of the largest and most geographically diverse hospitality companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel reits. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale, our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., choice hotels international, hongkong and shanghai hotels, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, radisson hotel group and wyndham hotels &amp; resorts. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our hotels and resorts experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon their location and the customer-base served. we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical, and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in the development and supply of and demand for hotel rooms, occupancy levels and room rates realized by hotel owners through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result of such fixed costs, in a negative economic environment, the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise contracts and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular jurisdiction. 9 in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employees, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in puerto rico and one property in egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. as an international manager, franchisor, owner and lessee of properties in 113 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices; privacy laws; tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; and other potentially adverse tax consequences. in addition, our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to additional laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the united kingdom's ("u.k.") bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. the european union's general data protection regulation, effective in 2018, has stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data such as credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information that we collect for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions; the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances; and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, laundry and dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of waste that we generate, including at locations where such waste has been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination pursuant to our management or franchise contracts, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an ongoing operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and managed properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 10 insurance u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in certain of our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners. if not participating in our programs, hotel owners must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs, but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. foreign managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. in addition, our management and franchise contracts typically include provisions requiring the owner of any hotel to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of such hotel. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks, and we believe such risks are prudent for us to assume. our third-party insurance policies provide coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insurance retentions or deductible obligations. we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption, terrorism and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned and leased hotels, and we maintain workers' compensation coverage for all of our employees. in addition, through our captive insurance subsidiary, we participate in a reinsurance arrangement that provides coverage for a certain portion of our deductibles. in general, our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. corporate responsibility the success of our business is linked to the success of our communities from the local owners who partner with us to build our hotels, to the local talent that operate them, to the local businesses we support through the products we source and to the guests we serve. therefore, we work every day to drive positive social and environmental change across our value chain, which consists of our operations, our supply chain and our communities. travel with purpose, our corporate responsibility strategy, is our commitment to drive responsible travel and tourism globally. our strategy was developed by mapping and ranking the social and environmental issues that are affected by our business and are critical to our long-term success, and we engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis to identify interests and concerns to continuously inform and enhance our strategy. as one of the world's largest industries, travel and tourism plays an important role in helping the international community achieve the global sustainable development goals ("sdgs") adopted by the united nations in 2015. our corporate responsibility strategy and actions, which align with the sdgs, are designed to address issues important to our business and serve to help ensure that there will be sufficient natural resources and thriving communities in the future to sustain our growth. we use lightstay, our proprietary and award-winning corporate responsibility performance measurement platform, to measure our social and environmental impact, including, but not limited to, volunteer hours, in-kind donations, local partnerships and energy, water and waste management. use of lightstay is a global brand standard required across hilton's entire system of hotels and corporate offices. in 2018, hilton was named industry leader on the dow jones sustainability index north america demonstrating industry leadership across economic, social and environmental pillars. social impact we have the ability to use our global growth as an engine of opportunity by committing to: (i) youth; (ii) inclusive growth; (iii) human rights; and (iv) our communities. as part of our commitment to youth, we are approaching our goal to open doors for 1 million young people by the end of 2019 by connecting with, preparing or employing them through global partnerships, talent pipeline and local activations. we continue to promote inclusive growth, which includes operation: opportunity, our veteran hiring initiative launched in 2013, through which we have hired more than 10,000 veterans in the u.s. we also promote inclusive growth through our involvement in project search, a platform to prepare young people with significant disabilities for success in integrated, competitive employment. additionally, over 3,000 women-, minority-, veteran-, disabled- and lgbt-owned businesses are vendors that are included in our purchasing operations in the u.s. we are committed to an environment free of any form of discrimination or harassment, and we require all of our employees to complete trainings on our code of conduct, which embraces our values and states that we will not tolerate any form of discrimination or harassment on the basis of any characteristic protected by law. as reflected in our code of conduct, any behavior, communication or other conduct that creates an environment that is intimidating, offensive or hostile is 11 unacceptable. additionally, to combat human trafficking, we launched mandatory human rights trainings in 2018 for all general managers at all of our hotels and resorts. in 2018, we received a 100 percent rating in the corporate equality index from the human rights campaign. we continually seek to create a positive impact in the communities in which we operate. in 2018, employees from 93 countries and territories volunteered more than 235,000 hours during our annual global week of service. additionally, since 2014, we have raised over $3 million to support 35 disaster relief campaigns for our employees around the world. to invest in our communities, we are working to double our sourcing spend from local, small and medium-sized enterprises and minority-owned suppliers. environmental impact we are committed to reducing our environmental footprint through energy and carbon management, water stewardship, waste reduction and responsible sourcing. in order to reduce our water, waste and energy consumption and achieve savings we have invested in various initiatives, including maintaining our portfolio-wide certification, which is valid through 2020, to iso 9001 (quality management), iso 14001 (environmental management) and iso 50001 (energy management) standards. we have achieved the following reductions in environmental impact since 2008: percent reduction achieved since 2008 (1) reduction in water consumption per square meter (2) 19 % reduction in waste produced per square meter (2) 36 reduction in carbon dioxide emissions per square meter (2) 33 energy consumption per square meter (2) 22 ____________ (1) reflects data that has been certified by an independent third party as of december 31, 2017, the most recent date for which data is available. (2) reflects performance across hilton's managed, owned and leased properties, which totaled approximately 22.1 million square meters as of december 31, 2017. in the area of responsible sourcing, we have collaborated with the world wildlife fund to identify, implement and scale up our sustainable sourcing practices. we mapped water risk levels for our properties around the world and identified three destinations with high water risk where we have started context-based water pilot projects: south africa; china; and the u.s. additionally, we have trained all of our purchasing employees in responsible sourcing. history in may 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas and we are celebrating our 100th anniversary in 2019. our predecessors commenced corporate operations in 1946 and hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. employees as of december 31, 2018 , more than 169,000 people were employed at our managed, owned and leased properties and at our corporate locations. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 31 percent of our employees globally and 36 percent of our employees in the u.s. were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at newsroom.hilton.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. 12 item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including employee compensation and benefits, energy, insurance, and food and beverage; increases in costs due to inflation or other factors that may not be fully offset by increases in revenues in our business; changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries who sell our hotel rooms to guests to attract and retain customers; the quality of services provided by franchisees; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture contracts; cyclical over-building in the hospitality industry; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; changes in the supply and demand for hotel services, including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. 13 macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at our hotels. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, increases in unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; governmental action and uncertainty resulting from u.s. and global political trends and policies, including potential barriers to travel, trade and immigration; war, political instability or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes and increased travel costs; conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents, outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, zika, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars), h1n1 (swine flu) and middle east respiratory syndrome (mers), and perceived negative impacts of tourism on local cultures and the environment; cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters and extreme weather conditions, including earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes (e.g., hurricanes florence, lane and michael in 2018), typhoons, floods, wildfires, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers; and organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased properties. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels decreases, our business operations and financial performance and results may be adversely affected. 14 the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon their location, type of property and competitive mix within the specific location. based on historical results, we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full-service and focused-service hotels, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators, home and apartment sharing services and timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, rates for hotel rooms, food and beverage and other services, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater commercial, financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively, or they could offer a type of lodging product that customers find attractive but that we do not offer. competition for management and franchise contracts we compete to enter into management and franchise contracts. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our ability and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, and the overall economic terms of our contracts and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise contracts could be reduced. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and the amount of payments to us for the assets and services we provide them may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable, unsustainable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, cyber-attacks, security breaches, natural disasters, crime, individual guest, owner or employee notoriety or similar events at our hotels and resorts can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity by increasing the speed and expanse of information dissemination. many social media platforms publish content immediately and without filtering or verifying the accuracy of that content. a negative incident at one hotel could have far-reaching effects, including lost sales, customer boycotts, loss of development opportunities, and employee difficulties. such an incident also could subject us to legal actions, including litigation, governmental 15 investigations or penalties, along with the resulting additional adverse publicity. a perceived decline in the quality of our brands or damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party property owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise contracts, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new and renew management and franchise contracts. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the contracts under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hospitality industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise contracts or enter into new contracts on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand for customers compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise contracts, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. while we maintain certain contractual protections, repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise contract or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to develop or buy and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing development pipeline and limit additional development to further expand our hotel portfolio. if our third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands and reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise contracts, as well as our license agreement with hgv, require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands, which include requirements related to the physical condition, use of technology, safety standards and appearance of the properties as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. 16 contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise contracts require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a property owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate contracts even where the contracts do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2018 , we had more than 2,400 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have contracts are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our development pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing and obtaining governmental or regulatory approvals. as a result, not every hotel in our development pipeline may develop into a new hotel that enters our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. since 2011, we have launched seven new brands: home2 suites by hilton; curio collection by hilton; canopy by hilton; tru by hilton; tapestry collection by hilton; motto by hilton and, most recently, lxr hotels &amp; resorts. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the united states over the past several years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the risks resulting from investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. our investments in owned and leased real property (including through joint ventures) subject us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; fluctuations or loss in value of real estate or potential impairments in the value of our assets due to changes in market conditions in the area in which real estate or assets are located; increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for capital improvements and expenditures funded by us to maintain or upgrade properties and contractual requirements to deliver properties back to landlords in a particular state of repair and condition at the end of a lease term; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with any mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; 17 contingent liabilities that exist after we have exited a property; costs linked to the employment and management of staff to run and operate an owned or leased property; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned or leased properties because we, as the owner or lessee, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned and leased property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive than anticipated. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed many years ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires, floods or tsunamis, or acts of terrorism; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists or at all, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other 18 third party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to us or the other joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we develop, own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology systems and services for property management, procurement, finance, human resources, reservations, distribution and the operation of the hilton honors guest loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, third party criminal activity including "ransomware" or other malware, and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. although we are migrating portions of our operations to cloud-based providers while simultaneously building and operating new applications and services with those cloud-based providers, any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we transfer production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems or interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our reservation and distribution system relies on data communications networks and systems operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer malware, changes in applicable federal, state and international regulations, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 19 cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and our third-party service providers experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, and despite our deployment of cyber-attack prevention and detection techniques, we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. we have in the past been subject to cyber-attacks and expect that we will be subject to additional cyber-attacks in the future and may experience data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual or other requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years and may continue to do so. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other costs or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which became effective in may 2018 and replaced the data protection laws of each eu member state, requires companies to meet new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data, and failure to meet the gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to four percent of worldwide revenue. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. in addition, u.s. states and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our guest loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades, and third parties may cease support of systems that are currently in use. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. 20 we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as third-party alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we also may divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns or otherwise fail to achieve the benefits we expect. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email and social media marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws and court or agency interpretations of such laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the eu gdpr, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies, and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our business. if these bookings increase, certain hospitality intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. these hospitality intermediaries also may reduce these bookings by de-ranking our hotels in search results on their platforms, and other online providers may divert business away from our hotels. although our contracts with many hospitality intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these contracts upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather 21 than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites, which increases costs to hotels in our system. internet travel intermediaries also have been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual leisure consumers or "transient" business rather than "group" business for meetings and events, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to group business and also to corporate transient business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and corporate transient business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and corporate transient business. consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, or the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online, by telephone to our call centers, through devices via our mobile application, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton honors loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton honors guest loyalty program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise contracts. system hotels (including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise arrangements) contribute a percentage of the loyalty member's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton honors arranges with third parties, such as airlines, other transportation services, online vendors, retailers and credit card companies, to sell honors points for the use of their customers and/or to allow honors members to use or exchange points for products or services. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton honors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the united states, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 113 countries and territories around the world. our rooms outside the united states represented approximately 27 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent of our system-wide rooms for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. we expect that our international operations will continue to account for a material portion of our results. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the united states, including: rapid changes in governmental, economic or political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the effect of disruptions caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; 22 the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or the effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; the ability to comply with or the effect of complying with developing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments with respect to human rights, including in the supply chain; instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change; political, economic and other uncertainty resulting from the u.k.'s june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as "brexit"), the terms and timing of which remain uncertain and could adversely affect our business; uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and intellectual property rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues earned from and the market value of properties that we own or lease located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the fcpa, as well as trade sanctions administered by the ofac. the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we manage or own in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to or receive funds from persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president 23 and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra, including the activities discussed in the disclosures included on exhibit 99.1 to this annual report on form 10-k. disclosure of such activities, even if such activities are permissible under applicable law, and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to a number of modern slavery, human trafficking and forced labor reporting, training and due diligence laws in various jurisdictions and expect additional statutory regimes to combat these crimes to be enacted in the future. the impact of laws such as the u.k's modern slavery act 2015, australia's modern slavery bill 2018, and france's duty of vigilance law 2017 on hotel operations as well as supply chain could increase costs of operations and reduce profits. the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, significant customers, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 31 percent ) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 20 percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations and our ability to promote services expected by customers, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage employees. we employ or manage more than 169,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to staff and manage the hotels that we manage, own and lease could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our 24 results of operations and the results of hotels that we manage on behalf of third-party owners. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have more than 6,200 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other intellectual property. however, those trademark or other intellectual property registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other intellectual property are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we have granted hgv the right to use certain of our marks and intellectual property in its timeshare business and we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if hgv, a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain intellectual property from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this intellectual property, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other contracts to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property; limit our ability to develop new intellectual property; and limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other contracts may not be available to us 25 on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party intellectual property claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange derivatives with financial institutions. however, these derivatives may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise or own, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses exists, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and/or we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first- and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control, such as the natural and man-made disasters that occurred in 2018, could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. we anticipate increased costs of property insurance across the portfolio in 2019 due to the significant losses that insurers suffered globally in 2018. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and 26 result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the "program") to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2020, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2005 through december 31, 2013 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans, our hilton honors guest loyalty program and our foreign-currency denominated loans issued by one of our subsidiaries. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $817 million , excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. see note 14 : " income taxes " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 : " basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies " in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate our 27 intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hospitality industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise contract and negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. our obligations under this settlement expired in march 2015 except that certain managed and franchised hotels that were required to conduct surveys of their facilities remain under an obligation to remove architectural barriers at their facilities through march 15, 2022 and we have an obligation to have an independent consultant to monitor those barrier removal efforts during this period. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects that could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. 28 casinos featured within certain of our properties are subject to gaming laws, and noncompliance could result in the revocation of the gaming licenses. several of our properties feature casinos, most of which are operated by third parties. factors affecting the economic performance of a casino property include: location, including proximity to or easy access from major population centers; appearance; local, regional or national economic and political conditions; the existence or construction of competing casinos; dependence on tourism; and governmental regulation. jurisdictions in which our properties containing casinos are located, including puerto rico and egypt, have laws and regulations governing the conduct of casino gaming. these jurisdictions generally require that the operator of a casino must be found suitable and be registered. once issued, a registration remains in force until revoked. the law defines the grounds for registration, as well as revocation or suspension of such registration. the loss of a gaming license for any reason would have a material adverse effect on the value of a casino property and could reduce fee income associated with such operations and consequently negatively affect our business results. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits or disputes involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our spin-offs the spin-offs could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received a private letter ruling from the irs on certain issues relevant to qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). although the private letter ruling generally is binding on the irs, the continued validity of the private letter ruling will be based upon and subject to the accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the irs by us. further, the private letter ruling is limited to specified aspects of the spin-offs under section 355 of the code and does not represent a determination by the irs that all of the requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock and to us have been satisfied. moreover, if any statement or representation upon which the private letter ruling was based was incorrect or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts that prevailed at the time of the spin-offs, the private letter ruling could be invalidated. the opinion of tax counsel we received in connection with the spin-offs regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the code similarly relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spun-off companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. additionally, recently enacted legislation denies tax-free treatment to a spin-off in which either the distributing corporation or the spun-off corporation is a reit and prevents a distributing corporation or a spun-off corporation from electing reit status for a 10-year period following a tax-free spin-off. under an effective date provision, the legislation 29 does not apply to distributions described in a ruling request initially submitted to the irs before december 7, 2015. because our initial request for the private letter ruling was submitted before that date and because we believe the distribution has been described in that initial request, we believe the legislation does not apply to the spin-off of park. however, no ruling was obtained on that issue and thus no assurance can be given in that regard. in particular, the irs or a court could disagree with our view regarding the effective date provision based on any differences that exist between the description in the ruling request and the actual facts relating to the spin-offs. if the legislation applied to the spin-off of park, either the spin-off would not qualify for tax-free treatment or park would not be eligible to elect reit status for a 10-year period following the spin-off. if the spin-offs and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, the company would be subject to a substantial tax liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-offs were taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of park and hgv would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. park or hgv may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that we have executed as part of the spin-offs. in connection with the spin-offs, we, park and hgv entered into a distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and, as to park, management agreements, and, as to hgv, a license agreement. certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other following the spin-offs. we are relying on park and hgv to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. in addition, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us, park and hgv and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to park and to hgv, particularly if park or hgv were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. the impact of any of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could cause reputational harm and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us for certain liabilities. these indemnities may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by park and hgv, and park and hgv may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us with respect to such parties' assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or other agreements related to the spin-offs. there can be no assurance that the indemnities from each of park and hgv will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities. third parties also could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that park and hgv have agreed to assume. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from park or hgv any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are required to indemnify park or hgv in connection with the spin-offs, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, which could negatively affect our financial results. pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs and certain other agreements among park and hgv and us, we agreed to indemnify each of park and hgv from certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide park and/or hgv may be significant and could negatively affect our business. risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2018 , our total indebtedness, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs and discount, was approximately $7.4 billion, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt for the years ending december 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively, were $16 million , $17 million and $18 million . our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures or dividends to stockholders and to pursue future business opportunities; 30 increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. in addition, certain of our variable rate indebtedness uses libor as a benchmark for establishing the rate of interest and may be hedged with libor-based interest rate derivatives. libor is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. these reforms and other pressures may cause libor to be replaced with a new benchmark or to perform differently than in the past. the consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted, but could include an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indentures that govern our senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends (including to us) and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to the issuers; 31 designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $50 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 30 percent of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement will require us to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 7.0 to 1.0. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to pay dividends to our stockholders will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding three risk factors would increase. risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate substantially and be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control. our common stock is listed on the nyse under the trading symbol "hlt." the capital and credit markets have on occasion experienced periods of extreme volatility and disruption. the market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their common stock. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share trading price of our common stock. 32 while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we may change our dividend policy at any time. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. future issuances of common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or issuance of shares of preferred stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, may dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common stock. because our decision to issue additional equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future issuances. also, we cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our by-laws and that our stockholders may only amend our by-laws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. further, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect future income, cash flows and the fair value of the company, depending on changes to interest rates or foreign exchange rates. in certain situations, we may seek to reduce cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into derivative financial instruments intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. we continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. we enter into derivative financial instruments to the extent they meet the objectives described above, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable-rate debt. we are most vulnerable to changes in one-month libor, as the interest rate on our variable-rate debt is based on this index. we use interest rate swaps in order to maintain an appropriate level of exposure to interest rate variability. as of december 31, 2018 , we held interest rate swaps through which we receive one-month libor and pay a fixed rate on a portion of the term loans. we elected to designate these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. the following table sets forth the contractual maturities and the total fair values as of december 31, 2018 for our financial instruments that are materially affected by interest rate risk, including long-term debt and interest rate swaps. for long-term debt, the table presents contractual maturities and related weighted average interest rates. for the interest rate swaps, the table presents the notional amount and weighted average interest rate by contractual maturity date. fixed rates are the weighted average actual rates, and variable rates are the weighted average market rates prevailing as of december 31, 2018 for the interest rate hedges in place. maturities by period 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter carrying value fair value (in millions, excluding interest rates) long-term debt: fixed-rate long-term debt (1)(2) $ $ $ $ $ $ 3,949 $ 3,949 $ 3,809 weighted average interest rate 4.76 % variable-rate long-term debt (2) $ $ $ $ $ 3,091 $ $ 3,091 $ 3,039 weighted average interest rate 4.26 % interest rate swaps: variable to fixed (3)(4) $ $ $ $ 1,600 $ $ $ 1,600 $ 23 variable interest rate payable (5) 4.26 % fixed interest rate receivable (6) 1.98 % ____________ (1) excludes capital lease obligations with a carrying value of $225 million and debt of consolidated vies with a carrying value of $17 million as of december 31, 2018 . (2) carrying value includes unamortized deferred financing costs and discount. (3) the carrying value balance reflects the notional amount. we measure our derivative instruments at fair value. (4) excludes an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $1.6 billion , which swaps one-month libor on the term loans to a fixed rate of 3.03 percent, with a term for the period from march 2022 to march 2023 , and had a fair value of $7 million as of december 31, 2018. (5) represents the estimated interest rate payable. (6) represents the interest rate receivable. refer to note 11 : " derivative instruments and hedging activities " and note 12 : " fair value measurements " in our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the fair value measurements of our derivatives and financial assets and liabilities, respectively. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in various currencies and are exposed to earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our principal exposure results from management and franchise fees earned in foreign currencies and revenues from our international leased hotels, partially offset by foreign operating expenses. the value of these revenues and expenses could change materially in reference to the functional currencies of the exposed entities and to our reporting currency, usd. we also have exposure from our international financial assets and liabilities, including certain 57 intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested, the value of which could change materially in reference to the functional currencies of the exposed entities. as of december 31, 2018 , our largest net exposures were to aud and eur. we use forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges to offset exposure from foreign currency exchange rate risks associated with our management and franchise fees denominated in certain foreign currencies. we use forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments to offset exposure to cash balances denominated in foreign currencies. refer to note 11 : " derivative instruments and hedging activities " in our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the fair value and earnings effect of these forward contracts, which we do not consider to be material to our consolidated financial statements. 58risk factors 15 risk factors." these factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report on form 10-k. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. terms used and basis of presentation in this annual report on form 10-k except where the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on form 10-k to "hilton," "the company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to hilton worldwide holdings inc., together with all of its consolidated subsidiaries. except where the context requires otherwise, references to our "properties" refer to the hotels, resorts and timeshare properties that are managed, franchised, owned or leased by us, while references to "hotels" excludes timeshare properties. on january 3, 2017, we completed the spin-offs of a portfolio of hotels and resorts, as well as our timeshare business, into two independent, publicly traded companies: park hotels &amp; resorts inc. ("park") and hilton grand vacations inc. ("hgv"), respectively, (the "spin-offs"). hilton did not retain any interest in park or hgv, but did enter into long-term management and franchise contracts with park for the portfolio of hotels and resorts held by it at the time of the spin-offs and a license agreement with hgv for the timeshare business. reference to "average daily rate" or "adr" represents hotel room revenue divided by the total number of room nights sold for a given period, and reference to "revenue per available room" or "revpar" is calculated by dividing hotel room revenue by the total number of room nights available to guests for a given period. reference to "adjusted ebitda" means earnings before interest expense, a provision for income taxes and depreciation and amortization, or "ebitda," further adjusted to exclude certain items. refer to "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations key business and financial metrics used by management" for additional information on these financial metrics. social media we use our website at newsroom.hilton.com, our facebook page at facebook.com/hiltonnewsroom and our corporate twitter account at twitter.com/hiltonnewsroom as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, our filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the "sec") and our webcasts. the contents of our website and social media channels are not, however, part of this report. item 1. business overview hilton is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with 6,110 properties comprising 971,780 rooms in 119 countries and territories as of december 31, 2019. for more than 100 years, hilton has been an innovator in its industry, driven by the vision of our founder conrad hilton, "to fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality." our premier brand portfolio includes: our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts, lxr hotels &amp; resorts, conrad hotels &amp; resorts and canopy by hilton; our full service hotel brands, signia by hilton, hilton hotels &amp; 2 resorts, curio collection by hilton, doubletree by hilton, tapestry collection by hilton and embassy suites by hilton; our focused service hotel brands, motto by hilton, hilton garden inn, hampton by hilton, tru by hilton, homewood suites by hilton and home2 suites by hilton; and our timeshare brand, hilton grand vacations. in january 2020, we launched a new brand: tempo by hilton. see " our brand portfolio," for additional information. as of december 31, 2019, we had more than 103 million members in our award-winning guest loyalty program, hilton honors. we operate our business through: (i) a management and franchise segment and (ii) an ownership segment, each of which is managed separately because of its distinct economic characteristics. the management and franchise segment includes all of the hotels we manage for third-party owners, as well as all franchised hotels operated or managed by someone other than us. the management and franchise segment generates its revenue from: (i) management and franchise fees charged to third-party hotel owners; (ii) licensing fees from hgv's 55 resorts, consisting of 8,916 rooms, and strategic partnerships for the right to use certain hilton marks and intellectual property ("ip"); and (iii) fees for managing our owned and leased hotels. as of december 31, 2019, this segment included 703 managed hotels and 5,287 franchised hotels consisting of 942,307 total rooms. as of december 31, 2019, the ownership segment included 65 hotels totaling 20,557 rooms, comprising 57 hotels that we wholly owned or leased, one hotel owned by a consolidated non-wholly owned entity, two hotels leased by consolidated variable interest entities ("vies") and five hotels owned or leased by unconsolidated affiliates. for more information regarding our segments, see "part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations segment results" and note 18: "business segments" in "part ii item 8. financial statements and supplementary data." in addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business by expanding our share in the global hospitality industry through our development pipeline. during the year ended december 31, 2019, we opened nearly 470 hotels consisting of more than 65,000 rooms, contributing to over 58,000 net rooms growth in our system during the year. additionally, during the year ended december 31, 2019, more than 116,000 new rooms were approved for development and added to our development pipeline. as of december 31, 2019, we had more than 2,570 hotels in our development pipeline that we expect to add as open hotels in our system, representing over 387,000 rooms under construction or approved for development throughout 116 countries and territories, including 35 countries and territories where we do not currently have any open hotels. all of the rooms in the development pipeline are within our management and franchise segment. additionally, of the rooms in the development pipeline, 215,000 rooms were located outside the u.s., and 193,000 rooms were under construction. we do not consider any individual development project to be material to us. overall, we believe that our experience in the hospitality industry, which spans more than a century of customer service and entrepreneurship, and continues to evolve for the tastes, preferences and demands of our hotel guests; our strong, well-defined brands that operate throughout the hospitality industry chain scales; and our commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program. we believe that satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for us and our hotel owners and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands with both existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. we believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal capital investment from us, positions us to further improve our business, allocate capital effectively and serve our customers in the future. 3 our brand portfolio the goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance. december 31, 2019 brand (1) chain scale countries/ territories properties rooms percentage of total rooms selected competitors (2) luxury 15 32 9,821 1.0% four seasons, mandarin oriental, peninsula, ritz carlton, rosewood hotels &amp; resorts, st. regis luxury 3 3 617 0.1% leading hotels of the world, legend preferred hotels &amp; resorts, small luxury hotels of the world, the luxury collection luxury 22 39 12,550 1.3% fairmont, intercontinental, jw marriott, park hyatt, sofitel upper upscale 5 13 2,104 0.2% 25hours hotels, hyatt centric, kimpton, renaissance upper upscale % fairmont, grand hyatt, jw marriott upper upscale 94 584 216,379 22.3% hyatt, marriott, sheraton, westin upper upscale 27 91 16,638 1.7% autograph collection, the unbound collection upscale 47 587 135,745 14.0% crowne plaza, delta, holiday inn, radisson, sheraton, wyndham upscale 3 31 4,156 0.4% tribute portfolio upper upscale 5 257 59,712 6.1% hyatt regency, marriott, sheraton, westin upper midscale % citizenm, freehand, generator, hoxton, moxy, yotel upscale % ac hotels, cambria, hotel indigo upscale 49 862 126,086 13.0% aloft, courtyard, four points, holiday inn, hyatt place upper midscale 30 2,544 266,933 27.5% comfort suites, courtyard, fairfield inn, holiday inn express, springhill suites midscale 2 116 11,203 1.1% avid, best western, comfort inn &amp; suites, la quinta, quality inn, sleep inn upscale 4 505 57,545 5.9% element, hyatt house, residence inn, staybridge suites upper midscale 2 384 40,373 4.2% comfort suites, towneplace suites timeshare 5 55 8,916 0.9% bluegreen vacations, diamond resorts, holiday inn club vacations, marriott vacations, wyndham destinations ____________ (1) the table above excludes seven unbranded properties with 3,002 rooms, representing approximately 0.3 percent of total rooms. hgv has the exclusive right to use our hilton grand vacations brand, subject to the terms of a license agreement with us. (2) the table excludes lesser-known regional competitors. 4 waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts : what began as an iconic hotel in new york city is today an extensive portfolio of luxury hotels and resorts in landmark destinations around the world. each waldorf astoria property provides a unique sense of place with a relentless commitment to personal service and culinary expertise, enabling guests to create truly unforgettable moments. properties feature elegant spa and wellness facilities; best in class bars and restaurants; golf courses at select resort properties; 24-hour room service; fitness centers; impressive meeting and events capabilities; wedding and banquet facilities; and special event and concierge services. lxr hotels &amp; resorts: found in some of the world's most alluring locations, lxr hotels &amp; resorts immerse guests in truly profound travel experiences. lxr connects legendary luxury properties into a network of hotels offering singular service and remarkable experiences. conrad hotels &amp; resorts : conrad is a global luxury brand offering guests service and style on their own terms all while connecting with the local and global culture. conrad has created a seamless connection between contemporary design, leading innovation and curated art to inspire the entrepreneurial spirit of the globally connected traveler. properties feature convenient and relaxing wellness facilities; innovative bars and restaurants; comprehensive room service; multi-purpose meeting/business facilities; and special event and concierge services. canopy by hilton: canopy by hilton is an energizing lifestyle hotel in neighborhood settings. our guests are explorers who seek uncomplicated comfort, thoughtful details, an energizing atmosphere and a uniquely local experience. each property is designed as a natural extension of its neighborhood, with local design, food and drink and culture delivering an authentic neighborhood experience with a boutique hotel feel. signia by hilton: signia by hilton is our premier meetings-and-events brand positioned at the top of the upper upscale category. it provides guests with best-in-class experiences in top urban and resort destinations around the world. signia by hilton has been developed to attract highly sought after larger convention group and transient business customers who are looking for a hotel focused on modern design, technology and premium culinary and wellness offerings that are associated with a prestigious global brand. hilton hotels &amp; resorts : for more than 100 years, hilton hotels &amp; resorts, hilton's flagship brand and one of the most globally recognized hotel brands, has set the benchmark for hospitality around the world, providing new product innovations and services to meet guests' evolving needs. with 584 hotels across six continents, hilton hotels &amp; resorts properties are located in the world's most sought-after destinations for guests who know that where they stay matters. the brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. hilton hotels &amp; resorts are full service properties that offer advanced meeting and event spaces and services; trend-forward restaurants, lobby bars and grab-and-go options; mindful fitness/wellness facilities; and other services. curio collection by hilton : curio collection by hilton is an upper upscale, global portfolio of hotels and resorts created for travelers seeking local discovery and one-of-a-kind experiences. each property within the collection is hand-picked for its unique identity or story and features elevated food and beverage experiences, while leveraging the many benefits of hilton, including the award-winning hilton honors guest loyalty program. doubletree by hilton : doubletree by hilton is a fast-growing, global portfolio of upscale hotels. over the past 50 years, doubletree has maintained its philosophy that it's the little things that make a big difference, from welcoming guests with its signature, warm doubletree cookie to serving the local community. thanks to the dedication of its employees, doubletree by hilton invites business and leisure travelers in key economic centers and tourist spots to experience the brand's comfortable and contemporary accommodations and amenities, including unique food and beverage experiences, state-of-the-art fitness offerings and meetings and event spaces. tapestry collection by hilton : tapestry collection by hilton is a portfolio of upscale, unique hotels that caters to guests seeking original and authentic experiences. every tapestry collection property has its own unique style, while giving travelers the reliability of the hilton name, in addition to the benefits of the award-winning hilton honors guest loyalty program. embassy suites by hilton : embassy suites by hilton is the upper upscale all-suites hotel brand that delivers inclusive value. all guests are welcomed with spacious two-room suites with separate areas to work and play, plus free made-to-order breakfast daily and complimentary drinks and snacks every night. motto by hilton : motto by hilton is a micro-hotel with an urban vibe in prime global locations. motto caters to travelers looking for value and one-of-a-kind experiences by bringing together the best elements of a lifestyle hotel efficient guest 5 rooms, activated social spaces, centrally located destinations and locally inspired design and food &amp; beverage. at its core, motto delivers a flexible and innovative hospitality experience through elements like first-of-its-kind linking rooms for group travel and vibrant communal spaces for work and social use by guests and locals alike. as of december 31, 2019, motto by hilton had 10 hotels in the pipeline, with the first opening expected within the next year. tempo by hilton: tempo by hilton is a new, approachable lifestyle hotel brand dedicated to exceeding the expectations of an emerging, and discerning, class of traveler: the modern achiever. pioneering a new hospitality category, tempo by hilton offers accommodations thoughtfully designed to help guests relax and recharge; inspiring public spaces, including an open lobby concept with dedicated spaces to relax, work, and dine; and elevated, yet approachable, culinary options, including the brand's signature coffee &amp; tea fuel bar, a casual breakfast caf and an inviting bar experience. additional amenities include state-of-the-art fitness facilities and programs and flexible meeting and working spaces. hilton garden inn : hilton garden inn is an award-winning brand where guests find an open, inviting atmosphere with warm, glowing service and simple, thoughtful touches that allow them to relax and recharge. as a recognized leader in food and beverage services, hilton garden inn caters to guests' dining needs by serving cooked-to-order breakfast and offering handcrafted cocktails, shareable small plates and full meals at its on-site restaurants and bars. flexible meeting space, free wi-fi, wireless printing and fitness centers are offered to help guests stay polished and productive. hampton by hilton : hampton by hilton is our largest brand, with both hampton inn and hampton inn &amp; suites hotels located in 30 countries and territories across four continents. recognized as the leading upper midscale brand in the lodging industry, hampton has been ranked the #1 lodging brand to franchise by entrepreneur for 11 consecutive years. hampton by hilton hotels around the world provide guests high-quality and thoughtfully designed accommodations, award-winning customer service and value-added amenities like complimentary hot breakfast with healthy options and free high-speed internet access all backed by the 100% hampton guarantee. tru by hilton: tru by hilton is a game-changing hotel brand where guests don't have to compromise between a consistent, fun and affordable hotel stay. spirited, simplified and grounded in value, tru by hilton is designed for cross-generational appeal, with a large, reimagined public space where guests can work, play, lounge and eat. efficiently designed modern guestrooms feature a rolling desk, oversized windows for natural light and bright, spacious bathrooms. guests can enjoy complimentary amenities, including a build-your-own "top it" hot breakfast with both healthy and indulgent items and more than 35 toppings, a multifunctional fitness center and fast wi-fi. premium snacks, light meal options and single-serve wine and beer are available for purchase at the 24/7 eat. &amp; sip. market. homewood suites by hilton : homewood suites by hilton is the upscale extended-stay hotel brand that delivers the comforts of home. every room is a spacious suite featuring a fully equipped kitchen suitable for stays of any length. a free, full hot breakfast is served daily, along with complimentary drinks and bites in the evenings. home2 suites by hilton : home2 suites by hilton is an innovative, all-suite extended-stay hotel thoughtfully designed for savvy, sophisticated and cost-conscious travelers. guests can enjoy the freedom and flexibility of modern suites with movable furniture, multi-purpose public spaces and impressive extras including complimentary breakfast and saline pools. whether staying a few months or a few nights, we strive to ensure our guests are comfortable and productive. furry family members are also welcome in our pet friendly environment. hilton grand vacations : hilton grand vacations is our timeshare brand. ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. each of the hilton grand vacations properties provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities. our guest loyalty program hilton honors is our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of brands at our managed, franchised, owned and leased hotels and resorts. the program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at nearly all of our properties, which are then redeemable for free nights and other goods and services. members can also use points earned to transact with nearly 70 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers, amazon.com and others. the program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to more than 103 million members, a 21 percent increase from december 31, 2018. affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. the percentage of travel spending we 6 capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. the program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by hilton honors members and collected by us from hotels and resorts in our system. these funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for hilton honors points redemptions by loyalty members and to pay for administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program. 7 our business as of december 31, 2019, our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region: owned / leased (1) managed franchised total properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms properties rooms waldorf astoria hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 14 5,965 14 5,965 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 257 2 257 europe 2 463 4 898 6 1,361 middle east and africa 5 1,224 5 1,224 asia pacific 5 1,014 5 1,014 lxr hotels &amp; resorts americas (excluding u.s.) 1 76 1 76 europe 1 307 1 307 middle east and africa 1 234 1 234 conrad hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 6 2,211 1 228 7 2,439 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 402 2 402 europe 4 1,155 4 1,155 middle east and africa 1 614 2 993 3 1,607 asia pacific 1 164 21 6,129 1 654 23 6,947 canopy by hilton u.s. 8 1,312 8 1,312 europe 2 263 2 263 middle east and africa 1 200 1 200 asia pacific 2 329 2 329 hilton hotels &amp; resorts u.s. 64 47,088 178 54,792 242 101,880 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 405 26 9,455 21 7,096 48 16,956 europe 50 13,919 43 14,246 42 11,355 135 39,520 middle east and africa 5 1,998 42 13,482 3 1,609 50 17,089 asia pacific 5 2,994 97 35,341 7 2,599 109 40,934 curio collection by hilton u.s. 6 2,485 44 8,805 50 11,290 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 99 9 1,213 11 1,312 europe 5 520 15 1,694 20 2,214 middle east and africa 3 445 1 356 4 801 asia pacific 4 773 2 248 6 1,021 doubletree by hilton u.s. 32 10,864 328 76,207 360 87,071 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 306 31 6,192 33 6,498 europe 13 3,349 97 16,434 110 19,783 middle east and africa 12 3,164 6 718 18 3,882 asia pacific 63 17,439 3 1,072 66 18,511 tapestry collection by hilton u.s. 29 3,966 29 3,966 americas (excluding u.s.) 2 190 2 190 embassy suites by hilton u.s. 42 11,115 207 46,594 249 57,709 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 667 5 1,336 8 2,003 hilton garden inn u.s. 4 425 682 94,423 686 94,848 americas (excluding u.s.) 11 1,561 42 6,533 53 8,094 europe 21 3,940 55 9,181 76 13,121 middle east and africa 15 3,272 2 271 17 3,543 asia pacific 30 6,480 30 6,480 hampton by hilton u.s. 38 4,697 2,193 215,477 2,231 220,174 americas (excluding u.s.) 13 1,685 101 12,182 114 13,867 europe 18 2,956 69 10,710 87 13,666 middle east and africa 3 723 3 723 asia pacific 109 18,503 109 18,503 tru by hilton u.s. 115 11,113 115 11,113 americas (excluding u.s.) 1 90 1 90 homewood suites by hilton u.s. 12 1,240 468 53,442 480 54,682 americas (excluding u.s.) 3 406 22 2,457 25 2,863 home2 suites by hilton u.s. 3 313 374 39,307 377 39,620 americas (excluding u.s.) 7 753 7 753 other 4 1,995 3 1,007 7 3,002 hotels 65 20,557 703 221,615 5,287 720,692 6,055 962,864 hilton grand vacations 55 8,916 55 8,916 total 65 20,557 703 221,615 5,342 729,608 6,110 971,780 ____________ (1) includes hotels owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling financial interest. 8 management and franchise we manage hotels and license our brands through our management and franchise segment. this segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners, as well as from fees associated with license agreements. we grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our commercial services to support their properties. these contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned. hotel management our core management services consist of operating hotels under management contracts for the benefit of third parties who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. terms of our management contracts vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee, which is typically based on a percentage of the hotel's monthly gross revenue, and, when applicable, an incentive management fee, which is typically based on a percentage of the hotel's operating profits and may be subject to a stated return threshold to the owner, normally over a one-calendar year period. in general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. in turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly program fee based on the underlying hotel's sales or usage, which covers the costs of: (i) advertising and marketing programs; (ii) internet, technology and reservation systems; and (iii) quality assurance program expenses. owners are also responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2019, we managed 703 hotels with 221,615 rooms, excluding hotels included in our ownership segment. the initial terms of our management contracts are typically 20 to 30 years. in certain cases, we are both the franchisor and manager of the hotel, when we enter into a franchise contract in addition to a management contract, and we classify the hotel as managed in our portfolio. extension options for our management contracts are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full service hotels. generally, these contracts contain one or two extension options that are for either five or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the hotel owner's option or by mutual agreement. some of our management contracts provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel's performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. we often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited. franchising we license our brand names, trademarks and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise contracts. we do not own, manage or operate franchised properties and do not employ the individuals working at these locations. we conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards that we establish are maintained. for newly franchised hotels, including both new construction and conversions of existing hotels from other brands, we approve the location, as well as the plans for the facilities to ensure the hotels meet our brand standards. for existing franchised hotels, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed to keep the hotels in compliance with our brand standards, so that they can remain in our hotel system. we also earn license fees from a license agreement with hgv and co-brand credit card arrangements for the use of certain hilton marks and ip. each franchisee pays us an application, initiation or other fee in conjunction with the inception of a franchise contract. franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's monthly gross room revenue and, in some cases, a percentage of gross food and beverage revenues and other revenues, as applicable. additionally, the franchisees generally pay a monthly program fee based on the underlying hotel's sales or usage, which covers the costs of: (i) advertising and marketing programs; (ii) internet, technology and reservation systems; and (iii) quality assurance program expenses. franchisees are also responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our hilton honors guest loyalty program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services. as of december 31, 2019, we franchised 5,342 properties with 729,608 rooms. our franchise contracts typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new hotels and approximately 10 to 20 years for hotels converting from brands outside our system. at the expiration of the initial term, we may have a contractual right or obligation to relicense the hotel to the franchisee for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. we have the right to terminate a franchise contract upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand 9 standards. if a franchise contract is terminated by us because of a franchisee's default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages. we have no legal responsibility for the employees or the liabilities associated with operating franchised properties. ownership as a hotel owner and lessee, we focus on maximizing cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, maximizing hotel revenues, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. through our disciplined approach to hotel and asset management, we develop and execute on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance their competitive position and, at many of our hotels, we invest in renovating guest rooms and public spaces and adding or enhancing meeting and retail space to improve profitability. as of december 31, 2019, our ownership segment consisted of 65 hotels with 20,557 rooms that we owned or leased or that are owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling financial interest. corporate responsibility the success of our business is linked to our ability to operate and grow sustainably. as one of the world's largest hotel companies, we have a responsibility to protect our communities and our planet, so destinations remain vibrant and resilient for generations of travelers to come. we work to drive positive social and environmental change across our operations, our supply chain and our communities. travel with purpose, our corporate responsibility strategy, is our commitment to drive responsible travel and tourism globally. we have committed to double our investment in social impact and cut our environmental impact in half by 2030 (the "2030 goals"). our strategy and our 2030 goals were developed by mapping and ranking the social and environmental issues that are affected by our business and are critical to our long-term success. we engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis to identify interests and concerns to continuously inform and enhance our strategy. travel and tourism plays an important role in helping the international community achieve the global sustainable development goals ("sdgs") adopted by the united nations in 2015. our corporate responsibility strategy and actions, which align with the sdgs, are designed to address issues important to our business and help ensure that there will be sufficient natural resources and thriving communities in the future to sustain our growth. we use lightstay, our proprietary and award-winning corporate responsibility performance management platform, to measure our social and environmental impact, including, but not limited to, volunteer hours, in-kind donations, local partnerships and energy, water and waste management. use of lightstay is a global brand standard required across hilton's entire system of hotels and corporate offices. hilton recognizes climate change to be a critical business risk, and we are committed to reducing our carbon emissions in line with climate science. we were the first hospitality brand to set science-based carbon reduction targets, which were verified by the science based targets initiative ("sbti") in may 2018. in 2019, hilton was named the global industry leader on the dow jones sustainability indices, demonstrating industry leadership across economic, social and environmental pillars. we were also named to the global environmental impact nonprofit cdp's 2019 "a-list" for climate change, recognizing our actions to cut emissions, mitigate climate risk and contribute to the low-carbon economy. in 2019, we launched the hilton effect foundation (the "foundation") with the mission to create a better world to travel by investing in organizations and people that have a positive impact on the communities hilton serves. the foundation is our primary international philanthropic arm, supporting efforts that help us meet our 2030 goals. during the year, the foundation announced its first 15 grant recipients, funding programs around the globe that are creating opportunities for youth, aiding in disaster recovery and supporting water stewardship and sustainability. the foundation is a nonprofit established in the united states and is registered as a 501(c)(3) charitable organization. social impact we use our global presence as an engine of opportunity, focusing on positively impacting human rights, inclusive growth and our communities as we work towards our goal to double our social impact investment by 2030. we are committed to an environment free of any form of discrimination or harassment, and we require all of our employees to complete trainings on our code of conduct, which embraces our values and states that we will not tolerate any form of 10 discrimination or harassment on the basis of any characteristic protected by law. as reflected in our code of conduct, any behavior, communication or other conduct that creates an environment that is intimidating, offensive or hostile is unacceptable. to combat human trafficking, we require all hotel-based employees to complete an annual training on identifying signs of trafficking. we also partner with expert organizations, including ecpat, vital voices and it's a penalty, to help prevent and mitigate such risks, including at an industry level through the international tourism partnership, world travel and tourism council, american hotel &amp; lodging association and uk stop slavery hotel industry network. we developed the industry's first tailored training on risks of modern slavery in labor sourcing and made this training freely available to the public in 2019 via the international tourism partnership. in 2019, we once again received a 100 percent rating in the corporate equality index from the human rights campaign. this year, we exceeded our goal to open doors for 1 million young people by the end of 2019 by connecting with, preparing or employing them through global partnerships, talent pipeline and local activations. we continue to promote inclusive growth to generate participation in and benefits from travel and tourism for our customers, owners and team members. through our operation: opportunity initiative, we have hired more than 30,000 veterans in the u.s. since 2013. in collaboration with partners like project search and foxes academy (uk), we offer young people with disabilities skills training and opportunities for success in integrated, competitive employment. as members of the tent partnership for refugees, we have impacted nearly 11,000 refugees since 2015 through volunteering, in-kind donations, purchasing, training and employment. we also create opportunities through our value chain, and we are working to double our sourcing spend from local, small and medium-sized enterprises and minority-owned suppliers. we support nearly 3,500 women-, minority-, veteran-, disabled- and lgbt-owned businesses through our purchasing operations in the u.s. we continually seek to create a positive impact in the communities in which we operate. in 2019, employees from 107 countries and territories volunteered nearly 550,000 hours. additionally, since 2014, we have raised over $3.2 million to support disaster relief campaigns for our employees around the world. environmental impact we are committed to cutting our environmental footprint in half by 2030, through energy and carbon management, water stewardship, waste reduction and responsible sourcing. in 2019, we maintained our portfolio-wide certification to iso 9001 (quality management), iso 14001 (environmental management) and iso 50001 (energy management) standards, one of the largest iso certified portfolios of buildings in the world. also in 2019, our lightstay corporate responsibility management system achieved global sustainable tourism council recognized standard status, the first major hotel company to receive this recognition. we continue to focus on reducing carbon emissions in line with our science-based targets and driving water stewardship and responsible sourcing in our operations and value chain. in 2019, we also focused heavily on our waste reduction efforts. we implemented a global ban on plastic straws, cocktail picks and stir sticks at all hotels globally, and we are continuing our transition from individual bath toiletries to full-size dispensers. in 2019, we announced the expansion of our soap recycling program to 5,300 hotels globally, and we also announced the implementation of our food waste reduction program in our americas region and the expansion of hilton's food donation initiative to all managed hotels across the u.s. and canada. we continued to work with our environmental partner, world wildlife fund, to evolve our environmental strategy and implement our programs globally. we have achieved the following reductions in environmental impact since 2008: percent reduction achieved since 2008 (1) reduction in water consumption per square meter (2) 22 % reduction in landfilled waste per square meter (2) 44 reduction in carbon dioxide emissions per square meter (2) 36 energy consumption per square meter (2) 26 ____________ (1) reflects data that has been certified by an independent third party as of december 31, 2019. (2) reflects performance across hilton's managed, owned and leased hotels, which totaled approximately 23.9 million square meters as of december 31, 2019. 11 the following table reflects the key sustainability metrics for our managed, owned and leased properties, as well as recommendations of the sustainability accounting standards board within their hotel &amp; lodging and restaurant standards: year ended december 31, metric 2019 2018 2017 energy management total energy consumed, in gigajoules per square meter (1) 1.03 1.06 1.08 percent total energy from grid electricity 53.8 54.0 48.8 carbon emissions total emissions (scope 1 and 2), in metric tons co 2 e per square meter (1)(2) 0.101 0.104 0.107 water management amount withdrawn, in cubic meters per square meter (1) 2.35 2.42 2.46 amount consumed, in cubic meters per square meter (1) 0.586 0.605 0.615 percent in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress (3) 32 33 33 waste management (4) amount generated, in metric tons per square meter (1) 0.0080 0.0084 0.0087 percent diverted from landfills 34.8 33.4 32.0 ____________ (1) absolute consumption presented in the following table increased as a result of an 11.7 percent increase in the total floor area of hilton's managed, owned and leased properties, from 21.4 million square meters as of december 31, 2017 to 23.9 million square meters as of december 31, 2019: year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 total energy consumed, in million gigajoules 24.6 24.2 23.1 direct emissions (scope 1), in million metric tons co 2 e 0.48 0.53 0.51 indirect emissions (scope 2), in million metric tons co 2 e (2) 1.93 1.85 1.79 water withdrawn, in million cubic meters (m 3 ) 56.1 55.4 52.6 water consumed, in million cubic meters (m 3 ) 14.0 13.8 13.4 waste generated, in million metric tons 0.192 0.192 0.185 (2) scope 2 location-based emissions as defined by the greenhouse gas protocol: a corporate accounting and reporting standard (revised edition). (3) as defined by the world resources institute ("wri"). (4) approximately 41 percent of total waste is estimated to be food waste, based on a sample of approximately 50 food waste reduction pilots worldwide. hilton continues to refine its food waste reporting in alignment with the wri's food loss and waste protocol. competition we encounter active and robust competition as a hotel and resort manager, franchisor and owner. competition in the hospitality industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility; location; level of service; quality of accommodations; amenities; food and beverage options and outlets; public and meeting spaces and other guest services; consistency of service; room rate; brand reputation; and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels, inns and other accommodation rental services in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("reits"). we believe that our position as a multi-branded manager, franchisor and owner of hotels with an associated system-wide guest loyalty and commercial platform helps us continue to maintain our position as one of the largest and most geographically diverse hospitality companies in the world. our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies. while local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale, our primary competitors are firms such as accor s.a., choice hotels international, hongkong and shanghai hotels, hyatt hotels corporation, intercontinental hotel group, marriott international, radisson hotel group and wyndham hotels &amp; resorts. seasonality the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our properties experience higher or lower levels of demand vary from property to property, depending principally upon their location, type of property and competitive mix within 12 the specific location. based on historical results, we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. cyclicality the hospitality industry is cyclical, and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. there is a history of increases and decreases in the development and supply of and demand for hotel rooms, occupancy levels and room rates realized by hotel owners through economic cycles. the combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. the costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. as a result of such fixed costs, in a negative economic environment, the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. intellectual property in the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. we have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality. government regulation our business is subject to various foreign and u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise contracts and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular jurisdiction. in addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. our franchisees are responsible for their own compliance with laws, including with respect to their employees, minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. we also manage hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. however, with the exception of casinos at certain properties in puerto rico and egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. we hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in puerto rico and egypt and employ third-party compliance consultants and service providers. as a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions. as an international manager, franchisor, owner and lessee of properties in 119 countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices; privacy laws; tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; and other potentially adverse tax consequences. in addition, our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to additional laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the united kingdom's ("u.k.") bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. the european union's ("e.u.") general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), effective in 2018, has stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data such as credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information that we collect for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. 13 environmental matters we are subject to certain requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and incur costs in complying with such requirements. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions; the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances; and wastewater disposal. in addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws, we may also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination. we use and store hazardous and toxic substances, such as cleaning materials, pool chemicals, heating oil and fuel for back-up generators at some of our facilities, and we generate certain wastes in connection with our operations. some of our properties include older buildings, and some may have, or may historically have had, laundry and dry-cleaning facilities and underground storage tanks for heating oil and back-up generators. we have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at some of our facilities, such as contamination that has been discovered when we have removed underground storage tanks, and we could be held responsible for any contamination resulting from the disposal of waste that we generate, including at locations where such waste has been sent for disposal. in some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination pursuant to our management or franchise contracts, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. from time to time, we may also be required to manage, abate, remove or contain mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. we have implemented an ongoing operations and maintenance plan at each of our owned and managed properties that seeks to identify and remediate these conditions as appropriate. although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs relating to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. insurance u.s. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in certain of our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners. if not participating in our programs, hotel owners must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. u.s. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs, but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. foreign managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. in addition, our management and franchise contracts typically include provisions requiring the owner of any hotel to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of such hotel. most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks, and we believe such risks are prudent for us to assume. our third-party insurance policies provide coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insurance retentions or deductible obligations. we maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption, terrorism and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned and leased hotels, and we maintain workers' compensation coverage for all of our employees. in addition, through our captive insurance subsidiary, we participate in a reinsurance arrangement that provides coverage for a certain portion of our deductibles. in general, our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels. history in may 1919, our founder conrad hilton purchased his first hotel in cisco, texas, and in 2019, we celebrated our 100th anniversary. our predecessors commenced corporate operations in 1946, and hilton worldwide holdings inc. was incorporated in delaware in march 2010. employees as of december 31, 2019, we employed more than 173,000 people at our managed, owned and leased properties and at our corporate locations. as of december 31, 2019, approximately 31 percent of our employees worldwide and 37 percent of our employees in the u.s. were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes. 14 where you can find more information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. our sec filings are available to the public over the internet at the sec's website at www.sec.gov. our sec filings are also available on our website at newsroom.hilton.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. risks related to our business and industry we are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; changes in operating costs, including employee compensation and benefits, energy, insurance and food and beverage; increases in costs due to inflation or other factors that may not be fully offset by increases in revenues in our business; changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; shortages of labor or labor disruptions; the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries who sell our hotel rooms to guests to attract and retain customers; the quality of services provided by franchisees, including ability to comply with relevant requirements including environment, human rights and labor; the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture contracts; cyclical over-building in the hospitality industry; changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; 15 changes in the supply and demand for hotel services, including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services; and decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. as a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at our hotels. these factors include, but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, increases in unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy; geo-political activity, such as the u.k.'s january 31, 2020 exit from the e.u. (commonly known as "brexit") or the recent political unrest in hong kong, and governmental action and uncertainty resulting from u.s. and global political trends and policies, including potential barriers to travel, trade and immigration; war, political instability or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; statements, actions or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes and increased travel costs; conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel or result in temporary closures or other disruption at our hotel properties, including travel-related accidents, outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as ebola, zika, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars), h1n1 (swine flu), the coronavirus, and middle east respiratory syndrome (mers); perceived negative impacts of tourism on local cultures, human rights and the environment; cyber-attacks; climate change or availability of natural resources; natural or man-made disasters and extreme weather conditions, including earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes (e.g., hurricanes barry and dorian in 2019 ), typhoons, floods, wildfires, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics; and other changes in the overall demand for what we offer, including the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers. any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased properties. in addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. during a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels decreases, our business operations and financial performance and results may be adversely affected. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which our properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon their location, type of property and competitive mix within the specific location and may change with changes in overall availability of lodging and hospitality options within a local market. based on historical results, we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. the segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full-service and focused-service hotels, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. we also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators, home and apartment sharing services and timeshare operators. if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. competition for hotel guests we face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. we compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, rates for hotel rooms, food and beverage and other services, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. our competitors may have greater commercial, financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively, or they could offer a type of lodging product that customers find attractive but that we do not offer. competition for management and franchise contracts we compete to enter into management and franchise contracts. our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our access to and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, the overall economic terms of our contracts and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and using our brands. if the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new management or franchise contracts could be reduced. 17 any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. in addition, the success of our hotel owners' businesses and the amount of payments to us for the assets and services we provide them may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. if our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable, unsustainable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. changes in ownership or management practices, perceptions of our environmental, social or governance practices, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, cyber-attacks, security breaches, natural disasters, crime, failure of suppliers, franchisees or business partners to comply with relevant requirements (including environmental, human rights and labor requirements), individual guest, owner or employee notoriety or similar events at our hotels and resorts can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity by increasing the speed and expanse of information dissemination. many social media platforms publish content immediately and without filtering or verifying the accuracy of that content. a negative incident at one hotel could have far-reaching effects, including lost sales, customer boycotts, loss of development opportunities and employee difficulties. such an incident also could subject us to legal actions, including litigation, governmental investigations or penalties, along with the resulting additional adverse publicity. a perceived decline in the quality of our brands or damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party property owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise contracts, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business depends on our ability to establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and our ability to enter into new, and renew, management and franchise contracts. although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the contracts under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hospitality industry, including factors outside of our control. in addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. if we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise contracts or enter into new contracts on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. growth of our business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. in addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand for customers compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise contracts, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for mortgage loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. if our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. while we maintain certain contractual protections, repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise contract or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. in addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to develop or buy and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. our 18 hotel owners' inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing development pipeline and limit additional development to further expand our hotel portfolio. if our third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for hilton brands, hilton's reputation and performance results could suffer. substantially all of our management and franchise contracts, as well as our license agreement with hgv, require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands, which include requirements related to the physical condition, use of technology, safety standards and appearance of the properties, as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. these standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. if our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, guest preference for our brands could diminish. in addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. we may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. our management and franchise contracts require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. any dispute with a property owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. we cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate contracts even where the contracts do not expressly provide for termination. our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. as of december 31, 2019, we had more than 2,570 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. the commitments of owners and developers with whom we have contracts are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our development pipeline, in particular for hotels not currently under construction, is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing and governmental or regulatory approvals. as a result, not every hotel in our development pipeline may develop into a new hotel that enters our system. new hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. since 2011, we have launched nine new brands: home2 suites by hilton; curio collection by hilton; canopy by hilton; tru by hilton; tapestry collection by hilton; motto by hilton; lxr hotels &amp; resorts; signia by hilton; and, most recently, tempo by hilton. we may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. in addition, the hilton garden inn, doubletree by hilton and hampton by hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the u.s. over the past several years. we may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. new hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. if new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 the risks resulting from investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. our investments in owned and leased real property (including through joint ventures) subject us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; fluctuations or loss in value of real estate or potential impairments in the value of our assets due to changes in market conditions in the area in which real estate or assets are located; increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; the ongoing need for capital improvements and expenditures funded by us to maintain or upgrade properties and contractual requirements to deliver properties back to landlords in a particular state of repair and condition at the end of a lease term; periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; risks associated with any mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; contingent liabilities that exist after we have exited a property; costs linked to the employment and management of staff to run and operate an owned or leased property; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned or leased properties because we, as the owner or lessee, bear the risk of the fixed-cost structure required to own and operate a hotel. further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties on favorable terms or at all. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned and leased property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive than anticipated. certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed many years ago. the condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. there can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. in addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; 20 force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires, floods or tsunamis, or acts of terrorism; and design defects that could increase costs. if our properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements. if a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists or at all, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. we have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. in most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. in addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. in addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. the non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to us or the other joint venture partners. additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. failures in, material damage to or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. we depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. we develop, own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology systems and services for property management, procurement, finance, human resources, reservations, distribution and the operation of the hilton honors guest loyalty program. such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, third-party criminal activity including "ransomware" or other malware and natural and man-made disasters. although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, substantially all of our data center operations are currently located in a single facility. although we are renovating and migrating portions of our operations to cloud-based providers while simultaneously building and operating new applications and services with those cloud-based providers, any loss or damage to our primary facility could result in operational disruption and data loss as we transfer production operations to our disaster recovery site. damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. in addition, costs and potential problems or interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to 21 conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. we rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. in particular, our loyalty platform and reservation and distribution system rely on data communications networks and systems operated by unaffiliated third parties. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. we rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that they can continue to support our business. the software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. the inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. we are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. additional risks include computer malware, changes in applicable federal, state and international regulations, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. from time to time we and our third-party service providers experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. the techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, and despite our deployment of cyber-attack prevention and detection techniques, we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. we have in the past been subject to cyber-attacks and expect that we will be subject to additional cyber-attacks in the future and may experience data breaches. even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual or other requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. the sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years and may continue to do so. breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other costs or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business. we are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' personal data and other sensitive information. we are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. for example, the e.u., california and nevada have all passed laws that require companies to meet specific requirements regarding the handling of personal data. we collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various u.s. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. 22 in addition, u.s. states and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. these laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. if we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. the hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our guest loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. these technologies may require refinements and upgrades, and third parties may cease support of systems that are currently in use. the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. because third parties provide us with a number of operational and technical services, third-party security incidents could expose us to liability, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness and adversely affect our financial performance. third parties provide us with certain operational and technical services. these third parties may have access to our systems, provide hosting services, or otherwise process data about us or our guests, team members or partners. any third-party security incident could compromise the integrity or availability of or result in the theft of, confidential or otherwise sensitive data, which could negatively impact our operations. unauthorized access to data and other confidential or proprietary information may be obtained through break-ins, network breaches by unauthorized parties, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could negatively affect our reputation, our competitive position and our financial performance, and we could face lawsuits and potential liability. delays in service from third-party service providers could expose us to liability, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness and adversely affect our financial performance. from time to time, we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers for the provision of various services that we use in the operation of our business. the inability of such third parties to satisfy our or our guests' requirements could disrupt our business operations or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. if any of these situations were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could be subject to third-party liability, including under data protection and privacy laws in certain jurisdictions, and our financial performance could be negatively affected. we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. these acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management's attention. we may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. in many cases, we could be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as third-party alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; or creating additional expenses. we may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. similarly, we may not be able 23 to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. in addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. we also may divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns or otherwise fail to achieve the benefits we expect. in some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email and social media marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. any further restrictions in laws and court or agency interpretations of such laws, such as the telephone consumer protection act of 1991, the telemarketing sales rule, can-spam act of 2003, and various u.s. state laws, new laws, or international data protection laws, such as the e.u. gdpr, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. if this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. we also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other companies, and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies' marketing materials. if access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. the growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our business. if these bookings increase, certain hospitality intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. these hospitality intermediaries also may reduce bookings at our hotel properties by de-ranking our hotels in search results on their platforms, and other online providers may divert business away from our hotels. although our contracts with many hospitality intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these contracts upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the hilton brands and systems. if this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites, which increases costs to hotels in our system. internet travel intermediaries also have been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in europe. the outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. in addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual leisure consumers or "transient" business rather than "group" business for meetings and events, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to group business and also to corporate transient business. if that growth continues, it could both divert group and corporate transient business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and corporate transient business. consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, or the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. we manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online, by telephone to our call centers, through devices via our mobile application, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel websites and other distribution channels. the cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to 24 affiliate with our brands. any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. the cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our hilton honors guest loyalty program could adversely affect the hilton brands and guest loyalty. we manage the hilton honors guest loyalty program for the hilton brands. program members accumulate points primarily based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. the program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise contracts. system hotels, including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise contracts, contribute a percentage of the loyalty member's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. in addition to the accumulation of points for future hotels stays at our brands, hilton honors arranges with third parties, such as airlines, other transportation services, online vendors, retailers and credit card companies, to sell honors points for the use of their customers and/or to allow honors members to use or exchange points for products or services. currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. if the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of hilton honors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the u.s. the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. we currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 119 countries and territories around the world. our rooms outside the u.s. represented approximately 28 percent, 27 percent and 26 percent of our system-wide rooms for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. we expect that our international operations will continue to account for a material portion of our results. as a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the u.s., including: rapid changes in governmental, economic or political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or u.s. anti-boycott legislation; increases in anti-american sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an american brand; recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; the effect of disruptions, including the temporary closure of hotel properties, caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease, such as the coronavirus, or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; the ability to comply with or the effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; the ability to comply with or the effect of complying with developing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments with respect to human rights, including in the supply chain; instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change; political, economic and other uncertainty resulting from brexit, the terms of which remain uncertain and could adversely affect our business; 25 uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and ip rights; forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. these factors may adversely affect the revenues earned from our hotels and resorts (as well as the market value of properties that we own or lease) located in international markets. while these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. specifically, with respect to concerns regarding the spread of the coronavirus, as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k, it appears the outbreak has largely been concentrated in china, although cases have been confirmed in other countries. the extent to which our results are affected by the coronavirus will largely depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. our business operations in countries outside the u.s. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the fcpa, as well as trade sanctions administered by the ofac. the fcpa is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. ofac administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we manage or own in the countries and territories in which we operate may provide services to or receive funds from persons subject to sanctions. where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to ofac. in addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-u.s. jurisdictions, including the u.k.'s bribery act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. in addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under the fcpa, u.s. sanctions or other laws. these restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. in august 2012, congress enacted the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 ("itrshra"), which expands the scope of u.s. sanctions against iran and syria. in particular, section 219 of the itrshra amended the exchange act to require sec-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain ofac sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. these companies are required to separately file with the sec a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the sec is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the u.s. president and certain u.s. congressional committees. the u.s. president thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. under itrshra, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q. we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to section 219 of itrshra. disclosure of such activities, even if such activities are permissible under applicable law, and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to a number of modern slavery, human trafficking and forced labor reporting, training and due diligence laws in various jurisdictions and expect additional statutory regimes to combat these crimes to be enacted in the 26 future. the impact of laws such as the u.k's modern slavery act 2015, australia's modern slavery bill 2018 and france's duty of vigilance law 2017 on hotel operations, as well as supply chain could increase costs of operations and reduce profits. the loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, significant customers, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. we also rely on the general managers at each of our managed, owned and leased hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of employees. these general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. the failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our managed, owned and leased hotels could negatively affect our operations. collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. a significant number of our employees (approximately 31 percent) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. if relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. a number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 23 percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. we do not have the ability to control the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by many third-party property owners. increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations and our ability to promote services expected by customers, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage employees. we employ or manage more than 173,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. if we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to staff and manage the hotels that we manage, own and lease could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. in addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the results of hotels that we manage on behalf of third-party owners. additionally, increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. any failure to protect our trademarks and other ip could reduce the value of the hilton brands and harm our business. the recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. we have more than 6,000 trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other ip. however, those trademark or other ip registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other ip in the u.s. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other ip without authorization. we may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. for example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. third parties may also challenge our 27 rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important ip rights. obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. our ip is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the u.s., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. if our trademarks or other ip are improperly used, the value and reputation of the hilton brands could be harmed. there are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our ip rights. litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. in addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. for example, we have granted hgv the right to use certain of our marks and ip in its timeshare business and we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. if hgv, a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could be harmed. failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other ip could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. in addition, we license the right to use certain ip from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. if we are unable to use this ip, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. third-party claims that we infringe ip rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other ip rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. we have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. any such claims, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; force us to stop using the ip that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged ip; force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other contracts to obtain the right to use a third party's ip; limit our ability to develop new ip; and limit the use or the scope of our ip or other rights. in addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. all necessary royalty, licensing or other contracts may not be available to us on acceptable terms. any adverse results associated with third-party ip claims could negatively affect our business. exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar ("usd") subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. we earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the u.s. as a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of u.s. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the u.s. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. we also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the u.s. are reported in local currency and then translated to u.s. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. as a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the u.s. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the u.s. increases. to attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange derivatives with financial institutions. however, these derivatives may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. 28 if the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise, own or lease, our profits could be reduced. we operate in certain areas where the risk of natural disaster or other catastrophic losses exists, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. we carry, and/or we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first-party and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. nevertheless, market forces beyond our control, such as the natural and man-made disasters that occurred in 2019, could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. we anticipate increased costs of property insurance across the portfolio in 2020 due to the significant losses that insurers suffered globally in 2019. in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. because certain types of losses are uncertain, they may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. in addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. in some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. as a result, we or owners of hotels that we manage or franchise could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. the terrorist attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon on september 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. in particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. the occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. the occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in new york city and the washington, d.c. area, congress passed the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002, which established the terrorism risk insurance program (the "program") to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. the program was most recently reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in december 2019 for seven years through december 31, 2027. we carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. we purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. if the program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2027, or if there are changes to the program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. 29 changes in u.s. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the u.s. and various other countries and jurisdictions. our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. from time to time, the u.s. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in u.s. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. in particular, our consolidated u.s. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2005 through december 31, 2017 are under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs"), and the irs has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans and our hilton honors guest loyalty program. in total, the proposed adjustments sought by the irs would result in u.s. federal tax owed of approximately $817 million, excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. we disagree with the irs's position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. see note 13: "income taxes" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. a change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. see note 2: "basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a summary of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted. changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives, as well as long-lived assets, principally property and equipment and operating lease right-of-use ("rou") assets, including hotel properties. we evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. we evaluate our intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. after performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. if the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. if these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. in many jurisdictions, the hospitality industry is subject to extensive foreign or u.s. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. we are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or u.s. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. we or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or u.s. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. the failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 30 foreign or u.s. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. we are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and u.s. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. we could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. from time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. the presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. the cost of compliance with the americans with disabilities act and similar legislation outside of the u.s. may be substantial. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act ("ada") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the u.s. under the ada all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after january 26, 1993; public accommodations built before january 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." the regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. the failure of a property to comply with the ada could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise contract and negatively affect the reputation of our brands. in november 2010, we entered into a settlement with the u.s. department of justice related to compliance with the ada. our obligations under this settlement expired in march 2015 except that certain managed and franchised hotels that were required to conduct surveys of their facilities remain under an obligation to remove architectural barriers at their facilities through march 15, 2022 and we have an obligation to have an independent consultant to monitor those barrier removal efforts during this period. if we fail to comply with the requirements of the ada, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects that could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. we are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. in recent years, we and other hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. at any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits or disputes involving third-party owners of our hotels. similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our spin-offs the spin-offs could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received a private letter ruling from the irs on certain issues relevant to qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). although the private letter 31 ruling generally is binding on the irs, the continued validity of the private letter ruling will be based upon and subject to the accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the irs by us. further, the private letter ruling is limited to specified aspects of the spin-offs under section 355 of the code and does not represent a determination by the irs that all of the requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock and to us have been satisfied. moreover, if any statement or representation upon which the private letter ruling was based was incorrect or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts that prevailed at the time of the spin-offs, the private letter ruling could be invalidated. the opinion of tax counsel we received in connection with the spin-offs regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under section 355 of the code similarly relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spun-off companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. the opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. additionally, recently enacted legislation denies tax-free treatment to a spin-off in which either the distributing corporation or the spun-off corporation is a reit and prevents a distributing corporation or a spun-off corporation from electing reit status for a 10-year period following a tax-free spin-off. under an effective date provision, the legislation does not apply to distributions described in a ruling request initially submitted to the irs before december 7, 2015. because our initial request for the private letter ruling was submitted before that date and because we believe the distribution has been described in that initial request, we believe the legislation does not apply to the spin-off of park. however, no ruling was obtained on that issue and thus no assurance can be given in that regard. in particular, the irs or a court could disagree with our view regarding the effective date provision based on any differences that exist between the description in the ruling request and the actual facts relating to the spin-offs. if the legislation applied to the spin-off of park, either the spin-off would not qualify for tax-free treatment or park would not be eligible to elect reit status for a 10-year period following the spin-off. if the spin-offs and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, the company would be subject to a substantial tax liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-offs were taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of park and hgv would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. park or hgv may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that we have executed as part of the spin-offs. in connection with the spin-offs, we, park and hgv entered into a distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and, as to park, management agreements, and, as to hgv, a license agreement. certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other following the spin-offs. we are relying on park and hgv to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. in addition, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us, park and hgv and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to park and to hgv, particularly if park or hgv were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. the impact of any of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could cause reputational harm and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us for certain liabilities. these indemnities may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by park and hgv, and park and hgv may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future. in connection with the spin-offs, each of park and hgv indemnified us with respect to such parties' assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or other agreements related to the spin-offs. there can be no assurance that the indemnities from each of park and hgv will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities. third parties also could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that park and hgv have agreed to assume. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from park or hgv any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 if we are required to indemnify park or hgv in connection with the spin-offs, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, which could negatively affect our financial results. pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs and certain other agreements among park and hgv and us, we agreed to indemnify each of park and hgv from certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide park and/or hgv may be significant and could negatively affect our business. risks related to our indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts, and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2019, our total indebtedness, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs and discount, was approximately $8.1 billion, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt for the years ending december 31, 2020, 2021 and 2022 were $37 million, $30 million and $22 million, respectively. our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures or dividends to stockholders and to pursue future business opportunities; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. in addition, certain of our variable rate indebtedness uses london interbank offer rate ("libor") as a benchmark for establishing the rate of interest and may be hedged with libor-based interest rate derivatives. libor has been the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, and it is currently expected that libor will be discontinued after 2021. while all of our material financing arrangements indexed to libor provide procedures for determining an alternative base rate in the event that libor is discontinued, there can be no assurances as to whether such alternative base rate will be more or less favorable than libor. we intend to monitor developments with respect to the phasing out of libor and will work to minimize the impact of any libor transition. the consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted, but could include an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness. we are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. if our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. as a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. 33 certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. the indentures that govern our senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; pay dividends, including to us, and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to us; designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and transfer or sell assets. in addition, the credit agreement requires us to maintain a consolidated secured net leverage ratio not to exceed 5.0 to 1.0 as of the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters. as a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. the terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to pay dividends to our stockholders will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. to a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. in addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and 34 exceptions. additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. these restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding three risk factors would increase. risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate substantially and be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control. our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the trading symbol "hlt." the capital and credit markets have on occasion experienced periods of extreme volatility and disruption. the market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their common stock. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share trading price of our common stock. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we may change our dividend policy at any time. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. future issuances of common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or issuance of shares of preferred stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, may dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common stock. because our decision to issue additional equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future issuances. also, we cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that one might consider favorable. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. among other things: although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; these provisions provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our by-laws and that our stockholders may only amend our by-laws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 35 further, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. these anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect future income, cash flows and the fair value of the company, depending on changes to interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. in certain situations, we may seek to reduce cash flow volatility associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates by entering into derivative financial instruments intended to provide a hedge against a portion of the risks associated with such volatility. we continue to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not hedged. we enter into derivative financial instruments to the extent they meet the objectives described above, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable-rate debt. we are most vulnerable to changes in one-month libor, as the interest rate on our variable-rate debt is based on this index. we use interest rate swaps in order to maintain an appropriate level of exposure to interest rate variability. as of december 31, 2019, we held interest rate swaps through which we receive one-month libor and pay a fixed rate on a portion of the term loans. we elected to designate these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. the following table sets forth the contractual maturities and the total fair values as of december 31, 2019 for our financial instruments that are materially affected by interest rate risk, including long-term debt and an interest rate swap. for long-term debt, the table presents contractual maturities and related weighted average interest rates. for the interest rate swap, the table presents the notional amount and weighted average interest rate by contractual maturity date. fixed rates are the weighted average actual rates, and variable rates are the weighted average market rates prevailing as of december 31, 2019: maturities by period 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter carrying value fair value (in millions, excluding interest rates) long-term debt: fixed-rate long-term debt (1)(2) $ $ $ $ $ 988 $ 3,953 $ 4,941 $ 5,230 weighted average interest rate 4.78 % variable-rate long-term debt (2) $ $ $ $ $ 195 $ 2,595 $ 2,790 $ 2,834 weighted average interest rate 3.50 % interest rate swap: variable to fixed (3)(4) $ $ $ 1,600 $ $ $ $ 1,600 $ 15 variable interest rate payable (5) 1.79 % fixed interest rate receivable (6) 1.98 % ____________ (1) excludes finance lease liabilities with a carrying value of $245 million and debt of consolidated vies with a carrying value of $17 million as of december 31, 2019. (2) carrying value includes unamortized deferred financing costs and discount. (3) the carrying value balance reflects the notional amount. we measure our derivative instruments at fair value and, as of december 31, 2019, this interest rate swap was in a liability position. (4) excludes an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $1.6 billion, which swaps one-month libor on the term loans to a fixed rate of 3.03 percent, with a term for the period from march 2022 to march 2023. the interest rate swap had a liability fair value of $22 million as of december 31, 2019. (5) represents the estimated interest rate payable. (6) represents the estimated interest rate receivable. refer to note 11: "fair value measurements" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the fair value measurements of our derivatives and financial assets and liabilities. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in various currencies and are exposed to earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our principal exposure results from management and franchise fees earned in foreign currencies and revenues from our international leased hotels, partially offset by foreign operating expenses. the value of these revenues and expenses could change materially in reference to the functional currencies of the exposed entities and to our reporting currency, usd. we also have exposure from our international financial assets and liabilities, including certain 59 intercompany loans not deemed to be permanently invested, the value of which could change materially in reference to the functional currencies of the exposed entities. as of december 31, 2019, our largest net exposures were to aud and eur. we use forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges to offset exposure from foreign currency exchange rate risks associated with our management and franchise fees denominated in certain foreign currencies. we use forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments to offset exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in certain cash and intercompany loan balances . we do not consider the fair value of earnings effect of these forward contracts to be material to our consolidated financial statements. 60