risk factors 2 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35risk factors 1 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35risk factors 3 risk factors risks related to our business and industry our inability to implement our long-range strategic plan may adversely affect our future results. our ability to successfully implement and execute our long-range strategic plan is dependent on many factors. our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention. additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance of our products and renovated store designs, competition, product differentiation, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and our ability to successfully implement technological initiatives. if we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long-range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, failure to meet shareholder expectations, particularly with respect to sales, operating margins, and earnings per share, would likely result in volatility in the market value of our stock. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores, department stores, traditional shoe stores, mass merchandisers, and online retailers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are selection of merchandise, customer experience, reputation, store location, advertising, and price. we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors, and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell an increasing proportion of our merchandise online, a significantly faster shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods online could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant suppliers operate retail stores and distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. should this continue to occur or accelerate, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a change in the relationship with any of our key suppliers or the unavailability of key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain premium product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, we have negotiated volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances with our suppliers, as well as the ability to cancel orders and return excess or unneeded merchandise. we cannot be certain that such terms with our suppliers will continue in the future. 2019 form 10-k page 3 we purchased approximately 91 percent of our merchandise in 2019 from our top five suppliers and we expect to continue to obtain a significant percentage of our athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. approximately 71 percent of all merchandise purchased in 2019 was purchased from one supplier nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike. individually they purchased between 43 to 77 percent of their merchandise from nike during the year. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our suppliers based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our suppliers will continue to allocate sufficient amounts to us in the future. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers as a result of business decisions by our suppliers, or any disruption in the supply chain, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of the high proportion of purchases from nike, any adverse development in nike's reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, product innovations, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry, especially at the premium end of the price spectrum, in which we operate, is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. in addition, retailers in the athletic industry rely on their suppliers to maintain innovation in the products they develop. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from suppliers. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or athletic apparel less attractive to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order most of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers' purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our financial condition and results of operations for 2020 will be adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic. in december 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (covid-19) was reported to have surfaced in wuhan, china. on march 18, 2020, in response to intensifying efforts to contain the spread of covid-19, we temporarily closed our stores across all of our brands in north america, emea, and malaysia that includes foot locker, lady foot locker, kids foot locker, footaction, champs sports, runners point, and sidestep. on march 25, 2020, we closed our stores in new zealand. the rest of the company's locations in the asia pacific region, which include hong kong, singapore, and australia, will remain open subject to direction from local and national governments. we continue to monitor the outbreak of covid-19 and other closures may be required to help ensure the health and safety of our associates and our customers. we are also continuing to communicate with our suppliers regarding the flow of product and potential temporary effects on our supply chain. given the dynamic nature of these circumstances, the duration of business disruption, and reduced customer traffic, the related financial affect cannot be reasonably estimated at this time but are expected to materially affect our business for the first quarter and full year of 2020. the extent to which covid-19 affects our results, or those of our suppliers, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of covid-19 and the actions and related costs to contain or treat it, among others. 2019 form 10-k page 4 we are affected by mall traffic and our ability to secure suitable store locations. many of our stores, especially in north america, are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. our sales are affected, in part, by the volume of mall traffic. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other factors, economic downturns, the closing or continued decline of anchor department stores and/or specialty stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, public health issue, such as covid-19, flu or other pandemics, or safety concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in such locations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls, as well as high-traffic urban retail areas and high streets. we cannot be certain that desirable locations will continue to be available at favorable rates. some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by economic conditions, the closure of certain mall anchor tenants, and changes in customer shopping preferences, such as online shopping. further, some malls have closed, and others may close in the future. while we seek to obtain suitable locations off-mall there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure such locations. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with them could negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. our future growth may depend on our ability to expand operations in international markets. our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our business in additional international markets. as we expand into new international markets, we may have only limited experience in operating our business in such markets. in other instances, we may have to rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets. in addition, business practices in these new international markets may be unlike those in the other markets we serve, and we may face increased exposure to certain risks. our future growth may be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in our international expansion efforts. we may experience fluctuations in, and cyclicality of, our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, product innovation, promotional events, the highly competitive retail sales environment, economic conditions, timing of income tax refunds, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, declines in foot traffic, supply chain disruptions, and weather conditions. many of our products represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in an economic downturn or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, acts of violence, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from suppliers for sale to our customers. any act of violence, including active shooter situations and terrorist activities, that are targeted at or threatened against shopping malls, our stores, offices or distribution centers, could result in restricted access to our stores and/or store closures in the short-term and, in the long-term, may cause our customers and employees to avoid visiting our stores. public health issues, such as covid-19, flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. additionally, public health issues may disrupt, or have an adverse effect on, our suppliers' operations, our operations, our customers, or result in significantly lower traffic to or closure of our stores, or customer demand. 2019 form 10-k page 5 our ability to mitigate the adverse effect of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. however, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster. any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations and incur significant costs to remediate concerns which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. technology, data security, and privacy risks we are subject to technology risks including failures, security breaches, and cybersecurity risks that could harm our business, damage our reputation, and increase our costs in an effort to protect against these risks. information technology is a critical part of our business operations. we depend on information systems to process transactions, make operational decisions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations . there is a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center or data leakage of confidential information, either internally or at our third-party providers. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, system implementation issues, viruses, malicious hackers, sabotage, or other causes. we invest in security technology to protect the data stored by us, including our data and business processes, against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-attacks. our data security management program includes enforcement of standard data protection policies such as payment card industry compliance. additionally, we evaluate our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security assessment measures. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. while we believe that our security technology and processes follow appropriate practices in the prevention of security breaches and the mitigation of cybersecurity risks, given the ever-increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cybersecurity measures and given the necessity of our reliance on the security procedures of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective. any security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. failure of our systems, either internally or at our third-party providers, including failures due to cyber-attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and negative consequences to us, our employees, and those with whom we do business. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by us could also severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, increase operating costs associated with remediation, and harm our business. while we carry insurance that would mitigate the losses, insurance may be insufficient to compensate us fully for potentially significant losses. risks associated with digital operations. our digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites, mobile sites, and apps and their related support systems, computer viruses, cybersecurity risks, telecommunications failures, denial of service attacks, bot attacks, and similar disruptions. also, we will require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our digital commerce business. risks related to digital commerce include those associated with credit card fraud, the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, governmental regulation, and legal uncertainties with respect to internet regulatory compliance. if any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. privacy and data security concerns and regulation could result in additional costs and liabilities. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, customers appear increasingly to have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived misappropriation or breach involving this data could attract negative media attention, cause harm to our reputation or result in liability (including but not limited to fines, penalties or lawsuits), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position, and cash flows. 2019 form 10-k page 6 the european union ( e.u. ) adopted a comprehensive general data privacy regulation (the gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018. gdpr requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection, and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete data about themselves. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4 percent of worldwide revenue. in addition, the state of california adopted the california consumer protection act of 2018 (&quot;ccpa&quot;), which became effective january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. it remains unclear how the ccpa will be interpreted and the extent of its effect on our business. some observers have noted that the ccpa could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent privacy legislation in the united states, which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. gdpr, ccpa and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices. the laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security are evolving, can be subject to significant change and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. the technology enablement of omni-channel in our business is complex and involves the development of a new digital platform and a new order management system designed to enhance the complete customer experience. we continue to invest in initiatives designed to deliver a high-quality, coordinated shopping experience online, in stores, and on mobile devices, which requires substantial investment in technology, information systems, and employee training, as well as significant management time and resources. our omni-channel retailing efforts include the integration and implementation of new technology, software, and processes to be able to fulfill orders from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers, which is extremely complex and may not meet customer expectations for timely and accurate deliveries. these efforts involve substantial risk, including risk of implementation delays, cost overruns, technology interruptions, supply and distribution delays, and other issues that can affect the successful implementation and operation of our omni-channel initiatives. if our omni-channel initiatives are not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our financial performance and future growth could be materially adversely affected. operational and supply chain risks complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate multiple distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the united states, canada, england, australia, and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or if any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may be unable to support the resulting additional distribution demands. we also may be affected by disruptions in the global transportation network caused by events including delays caused by the covid-19 pandemic, port strikes, weather conditions, work stoppages, or other labor unrest. these factors may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of merchandise. any interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements. we require our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety, and environmental standards. we monitor compliance with our policies and procedures using internal resources, as well as third-party monitoring firms. although we monitor their compliance with these policies and procedures, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternate manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise, or damage our reputation. 2019 form 10-k page 7 our reliance on key management. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management teams. our executive and senior management teams have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our success. our future performance depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management teams, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. while we believe that we have adequate succession planning and executive development programs, competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain and attract qualified executives. risks associated with attracting and retaining store and field associates. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified store and field associates. the turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and overtime regulations . investment risks if our long-lived tangible assets and operating lease right-of-use assets, or goodwill become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived tangible assets and operating lease right-of-use assets, and goodwill when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill is reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test, which consists of either a qualitative assessment on a reporting unit level, or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. the determination of impairment charges is significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our long-range strategic plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by factors such as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which are difficult to predict accurately. any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, including our operating lease right-of-use assets, and goodwill and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we do not have the ability to exert control over our minority investments, and therefore, we are dependent on others in order to realize their potential benefits. we currently hold $142 million of non-controlling minority investments in various entities and we may make additional strategic minority investments in the future. such minority investments inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and compliance risks associated with the investments. other investors in these entities may have business goals and interests that are not aligned with ours or may exercise their rights in a manner in which we do not approve. these circumstances could lead to delayed decisions or disputes and litigation with those other investors, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. if our investees seek additional financing to fund their growth strategies, these financing transactions may result in further dilution of our ownership stakes and these transactions may occur at lower valuations than the investment transactions through which we acquired such interests, which could significantly decrease the fair values of our investments in those entities. additionally, if our investees are unable to obtain any financing, those entities could need to significantly reduce their spending in order to fund their operations or result in their insolvency. these actions likely would result in reduced growth forecasts, which also could significantly decrease the fair values of our investments in those entities. 2019 form 10-k page 8 regulatory, global, legal, and other external risks economic or political conditions in other countries, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates may adversely affect our operations. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2019 was attributable to our operations outside of the united states. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states such as local customer product preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate, foreign currency fluctuations, real estate costs, and labor and employment practices in non-u.s. jurisdictions that may differ significantly from those that prevail in the united states. in addition, because our suppliers manufacture a substantial amount of our products in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. fluctuations in the value of the euro and the british pound may affect the value of our european earnings when translated into u.s. dollars. similarly, our earnings in other jurisdictions may be affected by the value of currencies when translated into u.s. dollars. except for our business in the united kingdom (the u.k. ), our international subsidiaries conduct most of their business in their local currency. inventory purchases for our u.k. business are denominated in euros, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. significant developments stemming from the u.k.'s withdrawal from the e.u. could have a material adverse effect on the company. in january 2020, the u.k. and e.u. entered into a withdrawal agreement pursuant to which the u.k. formally withdrew from the e.u. on january 31, 2020, which is commonly referred to as brexit. following such withdrawal, the u.k. entered into a transition period scheduled to end on december 31, 2020. during the transition period, the u.k. will remain subject to e.u. law and maintain access to the e.u. single market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the e.u. on behalf of its members. there remains substantial uncertainty surrounding the ultimate effect of brexit and any associated transition period. we have significant operations in both the u.k. and the e.u., and we are highly dependent on the free flow of labor and goods in those regions. in response to brexit, in february 2020 we engaged with a third-party logistics provider within england to mitigate supply chain risks. uncertainty surrounding brexit could cause a slowdown in economic activity in the u.k., europe or globally, which could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate, including data protection regulation. compliance with any new laws and regulations may be cumbersome, difficult or costly. the ultimate effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to e.u. markets, either during the transition period or more permanently. these outcomes could disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and create uncertainty and challenges (particularly in the near term) with respect to trading relationships between our u.k. subsidiary and other e.u. nations. these possible effects of brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. imposition of tariffs and export controls on the products we buy may have a material adverse effect on our business. a significant portion of the products that we purchase, including the portion purchased from domestic suppliers, as well as most of our private brand merchandise, is manufactured abroad. we may be affected by potential changes in international trade agreements or tariffs, such as new tariffs imposed on certain chinese-made goods imported into the u.s. furthermore, china or other countries may institute retaliatory trade measures in response to existing or future tariffs imposed by the u.s. that could have a negative effect on our business. if any of these events occur as described, we may be obligated to seek alternative suppliers for our private brand merchandise, raise prices, or make changes to our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability, results of operations and financial condition. 2019 form 10-k page 9 macroeconomic developments may adversely affect our business. our performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related effects on consumer spending levels. continued uncertainty about global economic conditions, including the covid-19 pandemic, poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, and lower home values. these and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. instability in the global financial markets could reduce availability of credit to our business. although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until may 19, 2021, tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or obtain funding through the issuance of the company's securities. in 2017, the u.k.'s financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced its intention to phase out libor by the end of 2021. it is unclear if libor will cease to exist at that time or if new methods of calculating libor will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. if libor ceases to exist, we will need to renegotiate our credit facility. this could have an adverse effect on our financing costs. we rely on a few key suppliers for a majority of our merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key supplier). the inability of these key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at february 1, 2020, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $907 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. we continually monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties. at february 1, 2020, all investments were in investment grade institutions. despite an investment grade rating, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. our u.s. pension plan trust holds assets totaling $664 million at february 1, 2020. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate funding risk through asset diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk of our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could affect the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. our financial results may be adversely affected by tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are a u.s. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax results by tax jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits. 2019 form 10-k page 10 changes in employment laws or regulation could harm our performance. various foreign and domestic labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. these laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime and sick pay, paid time off, work scheduling, healthcare reform and the patient protection and affordable care act, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, european works council requirements, and union organization. a number of factors could adversely affect our operating results, including additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime and sick pay, paid leaves of absence, mandated health benefits, and changing regulations from the national labor relations board or other agencies. complying with any new legislation or reversing changes implemented under existing law could be time-intensive and expensive and may affect our business. legislative or regulatory initiatives related to climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. global climate change could result in certain types of natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. following an interruption to our business, we could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. concern over climate change may result in new or additional legal, legislative, and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment, which could result in future tax, transportation, and utility increases, which could adversely affect our business. there is also increased focus, including by investors, customers, and other stakeholders on these and other sustainability matters, including the use of plastic, energy, waste, and worker safety. increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors and our customers with respect to our corporate social responsibility ( csr ) may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. our reputation could be damaged if we do not (or are perceived not to) act responsibly with respect to sustainability matters, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. increasing attention to csr matters may affect our business and some institutional investors may be discouraged from investing in us. companies across all industries are facing increasing scrutiny from stakeholders related to their csr practices. investor advocacy groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds, and other influential investors are also increasingly focused on csr practices and in recent years have placed increasing importance on the implications and social cost of their investments. regardless of the industry, investors' increased focus and activism related to csr and similar matters may hinder access to capital, as investors may decide to reallocate capital or to not commit capital as a result of their assessment of a company's csr practices. companies which do not adapt to or comply with investor or stakeholder expectations and standards, which are evolving, or which are perceived to have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for csr issues, regardless of whether there is a legal requirement to do so, may suffer from reputational damage and the business, financial condition, and/or stock price of such a company could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the importance of csr scoring evaluations is becoming more broadly accepted by shareholders. certain organizations that provide corporate governance and other corporate risk information to shareholders have developed scores and ratings to evaluate companies based upon csr metrics. many shareholders focus on positive csr business practices and scores when making investments and may consider a company's score as a reputational or other factor in making an investment decision. in addition, investors, particularly institutional investors, use these scores to benchmark companies against their peers and if a company is perceived as lagging, these investors may engage with companies to require improved csr disclosure or performance. we may face reputational damage in the event our csr procedures or standards do not meet the standards set by various constituencies. a low score could result in a negative perception of us, or exclusion of our common stock from consideration by certain investors who may elect to invest with our competition instead. in addition, the cost of compliance to receive high csr scores may be considerable. 2019 form 10-k page 11 we may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments. we are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively affect our operations. changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs, including health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in litigation, including commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, wage and hour, data privacy, anti-corruption, and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. the cost of defending against these types of claims against us or the ultimate resolution of such claims, whether by settlement or adverse court decision, may harm our business. we operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which is broader in scope than the fcpa, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. our continued expansion outside the united states, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of fcpa violations in the future. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock. we continue to document, test, and monitor our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. however, we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock. we may face risks associated with shareholder activism. publicly traded companies are subject to campaigns by shareholders advocating corporate actions related to matters such as corporate governance, operational practices, and strategic direction. we may become subject in the future to such shareholder activity and demands. such activities could interfere with our ability to execute our business plans, be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, and divert the attention of management, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business or stock price. international intellectual property protection can be uncertain and costly. uncertainty in intellectual property protection can result from conducting business outside the united states, particularly in jurisdictions that do not have comparable levels of protection for our assets such as intellectual property, copyrights, and trademarks. continuing to operate in such foreign jurisdictions where the ability to enforce intellectual property rights is limited increases our exposure to risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk derivatives derivative financial instruments are used by the registrant to manage its market risk exposure to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. the registrant, as a matter of policy, does not hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rates the registrant's major exposure to market risk is changes in interest rates, primarily in the united states. there is no cash flow exposure to rate changes for long-term debt obligations, which are fixed rate liabilities, denominated in u.s. dollars. short-term debt obligations reflect variable interest rate borrowings under the registrant's revolving credit agreement. there were no short-term borrowings outstanding as of february 3, 2001. interest rate swaps have been utilized by the registrant to minimize its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. there were no swap agreements in effect at february 3, 2001 or january 29, 2000. the table below presents the fair value of principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by maturity dates of the registrant's long-term debt obligations. january 29, (in millions) 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 thereafter total 2000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- long-term debt $ 49 38 -- -- -- 146 $233 $311 fixed rate weighted-average interest rate 8.09% 8.31% 8.50% 8.50% 8.50% 8.50% foreign currency exchange rates the registrant's international operations purchase significant levels of inventory primarily in u.s. dollars and in euros. in order to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on its results of operations, the registrant hedges the future cash flows arising from inventory purchases, through forward foreign currency exchange and option contracts. the registrant also enters into forward contracts to reduce its exposure to foreign currency risk associated with intercompany cash flow transactions. all instruments mature within twelve months. foreign currency exchange gains and losses did not have a material impact on the registrant's results of operations in 2000. the table below presents the notional amounts and weighted-average exchange rates of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at february 3, 2001. contract value weighted-average (us in millions) exchange rate ---------------- ------------- inventory buy euro/ sell british pound $23 0.5887 buy $us/sell euro 3 0.9536 --- $26 === intercompany buy german mark /sell $us $15 0.4495 buy euro/sell british pound 11 0.6407 buy $us/sell euro 7 0.9412 --- $33 === in addition, option contracts to sell euros, with a contract value totaling $15 million, were outstanding as of february 3, 2001, to hedge future cash flows related to the purchase of u.s. inventory. -6- 9quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the registrant is exposed to market risk related to both foreign currency fluctuations and interest rates. derivative financial instruments are used by the registrant to manage its market risk exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. interest rate swaps have been utilized by the registrant to minimize its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. there were no swap agreements in effect at february 2, 2002 or february 3, 2001. the registrant, as a matter of policy, does not hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rates the registrant's major exposure to market risk is to changes in interest rates, primarily in the united states. there is no cash flow exposure to rate changes for long-term debt obligations, which are fixed rate liabilities denominated in u.s. dollars. there were no short-term borrowings outstanding as of february 2, 2002. short-term debt obligations reflect variable interest rate borrowings under the registrant's revolving credit agreement. the table below presents the fair value of principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by maturity dates of the registrant's long-term debt obligations. february 3, (in millions) 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 thereafter total 2001 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ long-term debt $ 32 -- -- -- -- 348 $380 $233 fixed rate weighted-average interest rate 7.21% 7.21% 7.21% 7.21% 7.21% 7.21% foreign currency exchange rates for information regarding foreign exchange risk management, as required by item 7a, refer to footnote 1 on page 34 and footnote 16 on page 44 to the consolidated financial statements of the annual report which is incorporated herein by reference. the table below presents the notional amounts and weighted-average exchange rates of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at february 2, 2002. their fair values were not material. contract value weighted-average (us in millions) exchange rate ---------------- ------------- inventory buy euro/ sell british pound $ 34 0.6182 buy $us/sell euro 13 0.8815 buy $us/sell cad$ 3 0.6289 ---- $ 50 ==== intercompany buy $us/sell cad$ $ 65 0.6290 buy euro/sell british pound 10 0.6198 buy $us/sell euro 7 0.8994 buy $us/sell british pound 1 1.4230 ---- $ 83 ==== in addition, option contracts to sell euros, with a contract value totaling $6 million, were outstanding as of february 2, 2002, to hedge future cash flows related to the purchase of u.s. inventory. -6-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the registrant is exposed to market risk related to both foreign currency fluctuations and interest rates. derivative financial instruments are used by the registrant to manage its market risk exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. interest rate swaps are employed by the registrant to minimize its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the registrant, as a matter of policy, does not hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. -4- interest rates the registrant's major exposure to market risk is to changes in interest rates, primarily in the united states. there were no short-term borrowings outstanding as of february 1, 2003 or february 2, 2002. short-term debt obligations reflect variable interest rate borrowings under the registrant's revolving credit agreement. for information regarding interest rate risk management, as required by item 7a, refer to footnote 1 on page 36 and footnote 18 on pages 44 and 45 of the consolidated financial statements of the annual report, which is incorporated herein by reference. the table below presents the fair value of principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by maturity dates, including the impact of the interest rate swap outstanding at february 1, 2003, of the registrant's long-term debt obligations. feb. 1, feb. 2, 2003 2002 (in millions) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter total total - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- long-term debt $ - - - - - 341 $ 341 $ 380 fixed rate weighted-average interest rate 6.6% 6.6% 6.6% 6.6% 6.6% 6.6% foreign currency exchange rates for information regarding foreign exchange risk management, as required by item 7a, refer to footnote 1 on page 36 and footnote 18 on page 44 of the consolidated financial statements of the annual report, which is incorporated herein by reference. the table below presents the fair value, notional amounts and weighted-average exchange rates of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at february 1, 2003. fair value contract value weighted-average (us in millions) (us in millions) exchange rate ---------------- ---------------- ------------- inventory buy euro/ sell british pound $ 2 $ 45 0.6335 buy $us/sell euro (1) 4 0.9470 ---- ----- $ 1 $ 49 ==== ===== intercompany buy $us/sell euro $ (8) $ 128 1.0118 buy $us/sell cad$ - 25 0.6280 buy euro/sell british pound - 15 0.6441 ---- ----- $ (8) $ 168 ==== ===== -5-risk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12-25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers of athletic footwear. any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or licensed apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order the bulk of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are price, quality, selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising, and customer service. our success also depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors with respect to shopping convenience, a quality assortment of available merchandise and superior customer service. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant vendors distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some vendors operate retail stores and some have indicated that further retail stores will open. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our vendors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 table of contents we depend on mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations. our sales, particularly in the united states and canada, are dependent in part on the volume of mall traffic. our stores in these countries are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores, changes in customer preferences or acts of terrorism. a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on us. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, particularly in the united states, and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of our relationships with these landlords or their financial condition would negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. additionally, public health issues may disrupt the operations of our suppliers, our operations, or our customers, or have an adverse affect on customer demand. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any significant declines in public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices, including the receipt of volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances from our vendors, as well as our ability to negotiate returns of excess or unneeded merchandise. the company purchased approximately 82 percent of its merchandise in 2009 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. approximately 68 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchase 46 to 85 percent of their merchandise from nike. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. in addition, our vendors provide support to us through cooperative advertising allowances and promotional events. we cannot be certain that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 3 table of contents significant increases in costs associated with the production of promotional materials may adversely affect our operating income. in the businesses in our direct-to-customers segment, we advertise and promote our merchandise through print catalogs and other promotional materials mailed to consumers or displayed in our stores. as a result, significant increases in paper, printing, and postage costs could increase the cost of producing promotional and other materials and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our operating income. we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, and weather conditions. many of our products, particularly high-end athletic footwear and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. there has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change recently, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies globally. this increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the united states to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes or in the cost of transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. we are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business. our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2009 were attributable to our sales in europe, canada, new zealand, and australia. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, such as foreign governmental regulations, compliance with u.s. governmental regulations applicable to operations outside of the united states (such as the foreign corrupt practices act), foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate. although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the value of the u.s. dollar as it relates to certain foreign currencies. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. 4 table of contents the current global economic conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. the company performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related impact on consumer spending levels, which have declined recently due to the current economic slowdown. some of the factors affecting consumer spending are employment, levels of consumer debt, reductions in net worth as a result of market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, and consumer confidence, as well as other macroeconomic factors. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including merchandise we sell, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected and customers may be hesitant to use available credit. the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect customer purchases for the foreseeable future and may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, declines in our profitability could result in a charge to earnings for the impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not affect our cash flow but could decrease our earnings, and our stock price could be adversely affected. instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. the distress in the financial markets over the past 12-18 months has resulted in volatility in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability. there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. although we currently do not have any borrowings under our revolving credit facility (other than amounts used for standby letters of credit), tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. additionally, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics, including lease-adjusted leverage ratios. as of november 23, 2009, our credit rating from standard &amp; poor was reduced to b+. this decrease would likely increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain credit. in addition, instability in the financial markets may have a negative affect on businesses around the world, and the impact on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. the company relies on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor). the inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. we determine fair value based on a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach. if an impairment trigger is identified, the carrying value is compared to its estimated fair value and provisions for impairment are recorded as appropriate. impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our three-year plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict. similar to others in our industry, the recent macroeconomic conditions have affected our performance and it is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will continue and which aspects of our business may be adversely affected. the continuation of these conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 5 table of contents material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at january 30, 2010, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $589 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. the company continually monitors the creditworthiness of its counterparties. at january 30, 2010, most of the investments were in institutions rated a or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. the trust which holds the assets of our u.s. pension plan has assets totaling $465 million at january 30, 2010. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate four distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the u.s., canada, australia and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, the company other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon ups for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by ups for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. we enter into diesel fuel forward and option contracts to mitigate a portion of the risk associated with the variability caused by these surcharges. a major failure of our information systems could harm our business. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed, which could have a negative effect on our business. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. we cannot be assured that our systems will be adequate to support future growth. risks associated with internet operations. our internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunications failures and similar disruptions. also, we may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our online commerce. business risks related to online commerce include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the internet, and collection of sales or other taxes by additional states or foreign jurisdictions. if any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. 6 table of contents unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether through a breach of the company computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of the company normal course of business, it collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential customer information. despite the security measures the company has in place, its facilities and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human error, or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by the company could severely damage its reputation, expose it to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt its operations and harm its business. our reliance on key management, store and field associates. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management team, as well as store personnel and field management. our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified associates. many of the store and field associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. in addition, a large number of our retail employees are paid the prevailing minimum wage, which if increased would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks arising from possible union legislation in the united states. there is a possibility that the proposed employee free choice act, ( efca ) or similar legislation or regulations may be enacted. efca, also referred to as the card check bill, if passed in its current form could significantly change the nature of labor relations in the united states, specifically, how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. it would be easier for unions to win elections and we could face arbitrator-imposed labor scheduling, costs and standards. therefore, efca could impose more labor relations requirements and union activity on our business, thereby potentially increasing our costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our overall competitive position. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. we must continue to document, test, monitor, and enhance our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting required under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding interest rate risk management and foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underrisk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. our inability to implement our strategic long range plan may have an adverse affect on our future results. our ability to successfully implement and execute our long range plan is dependent on many factors. our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention, which may result in the diversion of these resources from our core business and other business issues and opportunities. additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. if we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or licensed apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. both the nfl and nba have collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire in the current year. the possibility of a strike of either one or both of these leagues may result in a decline of sales of licensed product as well as player endorsed footwear. the businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are price, quality, selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising, and customer service. our success also depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors with respect to shopping convenience, a quality assortment of available merchandise and superior customer service. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant vendors distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some vendors operate retail stores and some have indicated that further retail stores will open. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our vendors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order the bulk of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we depend on mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations. our stores in the united states and canada are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. our sales are dependent, in part, on the volume of mall traffic. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, or public health concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, which affects our ability to open and operate stores in affected areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available. some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by the overall poor economic conditions, as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, particularly in the united states, and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with these landlords would negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. additionally, public health issues may disrupt the operations of our suppliers, our operations, our customers, or have an adverse effect on customer demand. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any significant declines in public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain exclusive product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices. in addition, our vendors provide volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances, as well as the ability to negotiate returns of excess or unneeded merchandise. we cannot be certain that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. 3 the company purchased approximately 82 percent of its merchandise in 2010 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. approximately 63 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchase 46 to 81 percent of their merchandise from nike. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. significant increases in costs associated with the production of promotional materials may adversely affect our operating income. we advertise and promote our merchandise through print catalogs and other promotional materials mailed to consumers or displayed in our stores. as a result, significant increases in paper, printing, and postage costs could increase the cost of producing promotional and other materials and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our operating income. we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, and weather conditions. many of our products, particularly high-end athletic footwear and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. there has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change recently, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies globally. this increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the united states to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes or in the cost of transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. we are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business. our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2010 were attributable to our operations in europe, canada, new zealand, and australia. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states such as foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate. although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the value of the u.s. dollar as it relates to certain foreign currencies. 4 in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. we operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which it is anticipated will become effective in 2011 and is broader in scope than the fcpa, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. our continued expansion outside the u.s., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the current global economic conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. the company performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related impact on consumer spending levels. some of the factors affecting consumer spending are employment, levels of consumer debt, reductions in net worth as a result of market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, and consumer confidence, as well as other macroeconomic factors. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including merchandise we sell, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected and customers may be hesitant to use available credit. the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect customer purchases for the foreseeable future and may adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, declines in our profitability could result in a charge to earnings for the impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets, which would not affect our cash flow but could decrease our earnings, and our stock price could be adversely affected. instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. uncertain economic conditions may constrain our ability to obtain credit. domestic and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all. although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until 2013 and do not have any borrowings under it (other than amounts used for standby letters of credit), tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. additionally, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics, including lease-adjusted leverage ratios. in addition, instability in the financial markets may have a negative effect on businesses around the world, and the impact on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. the company relies on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor). the inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 5 if our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. we determine fair value based on a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach. if an impairment trigger is identified, the carrying value is compared to its estimated fair value and provisions for impairment are recorded as appropriate. impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our three-year plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict. similar to others in our industry, the recent macroeconomic conditions have affected our performance and it is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will continue and which aspects of our business may be adversely affected. the continuation of these conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at january 29, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $696 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. we retain a substantial portion of our cash in foreign jurisdictions for future reinvestment. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. the company continually monitors the creditworthiness of its counterparties. at january 29, 2011, most of the investments were in institutions rated a or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. the trust which holds the assets of our u.s. pension plan has assets totaling $511 million at january 29, 2011. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher-than-expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits. a substantial portion of our cash and investments is invested outside of the u.s. as we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings, in accordance with u.s. gaap, we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. recent proposals to reform u.s. tax rules may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of u.s. income tax on our foreign earnings, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. any of these changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 6 in addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate four distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the u.s., canada, australia, and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, the company other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. we enter into diesel fuel forward and option contracts to mitigate a portion of the risk associated with the variability caused by these surcharges. a major failure of our information systems could harm our business. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed, which could have a negative effect on our business. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. we cannot be assured that our systems will be adequate to support future growth. risks associated with internet operations. our internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunications failures and similar disruptions. also, we may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our online commerce. business risks related to online commerce include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the internet, and collection of sales or other taxes by additional states or foreign jurisdictions. if any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether through a breach of the company computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of the company normal course of business, it collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential customer information. despite the security measures the company has in place, its facilities and systems, and those of its third party providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human error, or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by the company could severely damage its reputation, expose it to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt its operations and harm its business. 7 our reliance on key management, store and field associates. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management team, as well as store personnel and field management. our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified associates. many of the store and field associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. in addition, a large number of our retail employees are paid the prevailing minimum wage, which if increased would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks arising from possible union legislation in the united states. there is a possibility that regulations or legislation may be enacted in the united states along the lines of the proposed employee free choice act, which, if adopted or enacted, could significantly change the nature of labor relations in the united states, specifically, how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. it would be easier for unions to win elections and we could face arbitrator-imposed labor scheduling, costs, and standards. therefore, this legislation or regulations could impose more labor relations requirements and union activity on our business, thereby potentially increasing our costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our overall competitive position. health care reform could adversely affect our business. in 2010, congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the current lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall effect of the statute and related regulations on our business over the coming years. possible adverse effects of the health reform legislation include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise ways in which we conduct business. we may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments. we are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively impact our operations. changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs such as health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation or tax rates could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters, including class actions and patent infringement claims, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. we must continue to document, test, monitor, and enhance our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting required under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock, and market confidence in our reported financial information. 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding interest rate risk management and foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underrisk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. our inability to implement our strategic long range plan may have an adverse affect on our future results. our ability to successfully implement and execute our long range plan is dependent on many factors. our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention, which may result in the diversion of these resources from our core business and other business issues and opportunities. additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. if we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. the businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are price, quality, selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising, and customer service. our success also depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors with respect to shopping convenience, a quality assortment of available merchandise and superior customer service. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant vendors distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some vendors operate retail stores and some have indicated that further retail stores will open. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our vendors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or licensed apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 table of contents if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order the bulk of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain exclusive product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices. in addition, our vendors provide volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances, as well as the ability to negotiate returns of excess or unneeded merchandise. we cannot be certain that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. the company purchased approximately 82 percent of its merchandise in 2011 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. approximately 61 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchase 45 to 77 percent of their merchandise from nike. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we depend on mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations. our stores in the united states and canada are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. our sales are dependent, in part, on the volume of mall traffic. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, or public health concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in affected areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available. some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by the overall poor economic conditions, as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, particularly in the united states, and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with these landlords would negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. 3 table of contents the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. additionally, public health issues may disrupt the operations of our suppliers, our operations, our customers, or have an adverse effect on customer demand. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, and weather conditions. many of our products, particularly high-end athletic footwear and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2011 was attributable to our operations in europe, canada, new zealand, and australia. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states such as foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate, and labor and employment practices in non-u.s. jurisdictions that may differ significantly from those that prevail in the united states. although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the value of the u.s. dollar as it relates to certain foreign currencies. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. we operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which is broader in scope than the fcpa, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. our continued expansion outside the u.s., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 4 table of contents macroeconomic developments, such as the recent recessions in europe and the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union, could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those geographies . the company performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related impact on consumer spending levels. the continuing european sovereign debt crisis could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our european customers and also reducing the value of our european earnings when translated into u.s. dollars. this uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products and services. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit and lower home prices. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. these and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for the company products and services and the company financial condition and operating results. instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. past disruptions in the u.s. and global credit and equity markets made it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until 2017 and do not have any borrowings under it (other than amounts used for standby letters of credit), tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. additionally, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics, including lease-adjusted leverage ratios. the company relies on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor). the inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. we determine fair value based on a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach. if an impairment trigger is identified, the carrying value is compared to its estimated fair value and provisions for impairment are recorded as appropriate. impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our strategic long-range plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict. any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 5 table of contents material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at january 28, 2012, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $851 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. as of january 28, 2012, the company had $498 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. the company continually monitors the creditworthiness of its counterparties. at january 28, 2012, almost all of the investments were in institutions rated a or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. the trust which holds the assets of our u.s. pension plan has assets totaling $546 million at january 28, 2012. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher-than-expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits. a substantial portion of our cash and investments is invested outside of the u.s. as we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings, in accordance with u.s. gaap, we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. recent proposals to reform u.s. tax rules may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of u.s. income tax on our foreign earnings, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. any of these changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate four distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the u.s., canada, australia, and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, the company other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. 6 table of contents our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. we enter into diesel fuel forward and option contracts to mitigate a portion of the risk associated with the variability caused by these surcharges. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. there is a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. our business involves the storage and transmission of customers personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect the company data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes, as well as enforcement of standard data protection policies such as payment card industry compliance. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate critical findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification measures. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. while we believe that our security technology and processes are adequate in preventing security breaches and in reducing cyber-security risks, given the ever increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cyber-security measures and given our reliance on the security and other efforts of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective and any such security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our company, our employees, and those with whom we do business. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by the company could also severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, and harm our business. risks associated with digital operations. our digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and mobile sites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunications failures, and similar disruptions. also, we may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our digital commerce. business risks related to digital commerce include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the internet, and collection of sales or other taxes by additional states or foreign jurisdictions. if any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. 7 table of contents our reliance on key management, store and field associates. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management team, as well as store personnel and field management. our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified associates. many of the store and field associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. in addition, a large number of our retail employees are paid the prevailing minimum wage, which if increased would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks arising from recent activity by the national labor relations board in the united states. there have been recent decisions, and administrative regulations issued, by the national labor relations board that, if not successfully challenged, would significantly change the nature of how union elections are to be conducted in the united states. these recent decisions and regulations could impose more labor relations requirements and union activity on our business conducted in the united states, thereby potentially increasing our costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our overall competitive position. health care reform could adversely affect our business. in 2010, congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the current lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall effect of the statute and related regulations on our business over the coming years. possible adverse effects of the health reform legislation include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise ways in which we conduct business. legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. there has been an increasing focus and significant debate on global climate change recently, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies globally. this increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as-yet unspecified array of environmental matters. legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the united states to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes or in the cost of transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. we are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business. we may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments. we are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively impact our operations. changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs such as health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters, including class actions and patent infringement claims, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. 8 table of contents failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. we continue to document, test, and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; however we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock, and market confidence in our reported financial information. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underrisk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. our inability to implement our strategic long range plan may adversely affect our future results. our ability to successfully implement and execute our long range plan is dependent on many factors. our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention, which may result in the diversion of these resources from our core business and other business issues and opportunities. additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance of our products and renovated store design, competition, product differentiation, and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. if we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. the businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, price, quality, advertising, and customer service. our success also depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors with respect to shopping convenience, a quality assortment of available merchandise and superior customer service. we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant vendors distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some vendors operate retail stores and some have indicated that further retail stores and venues will open. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our vendors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or athletic and licensed apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 table of contents if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order the bulk of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain exclusive product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices from a limited number of vendors. in addition, our vendors provide volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances, as well as the ability to negotiate returns of excess or unneeded merchandise. we cannot be certain that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. the company purchased approximately 86 percent of its merchandise in 2012 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. approximately 65 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchased 48 to 77 percent of their merchandise from nike. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we depend on mall traffic and our ability to secure suitable store locations. our stores in the united states and canada are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. our sales are dependent, in part, on the volume of mall traffic. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other factors, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores and/or specialty stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, or public health concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in affected areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available. some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by the overall poor economic conditions as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, particularly in the united states and canada, and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with these landlords would negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. 3 table of contents we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, and weather conditions. many of our products, particularly high-end athletic footwear and athletic and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2012 was attributable to our operations in europe, canada, australia, and new zealand. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states such as foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate, and labor and employment practices in non-u.s. jurisdictions that may differ significantly from those that prevail in the united states. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. fluctuations in the value of the euro may affect the value of our european earnings when translated into u.s. dollars. although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar. macroeconomic developments may adversely affect our business. our performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related impact on consumer spending levels. continued uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, and lower home prices. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting reductions to their discretionary purchasing behavior. these and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services and our financial condition and operating results. 4 table of contents instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. past disruptions in the u.s. and global credit and equity markets made it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until january 27, 2017 and do not have any borrowings under it (other than amounts used for standby letters of credit), tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. additionally, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics, including lease-adjusted leverage ratios. we rely on a few key vendors for a majority of our merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor). the inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at february 2, 2013, our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $928 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. as of february 2, 2013, we had $543 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. we continually monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties. at february 2, 2013, almost all of the investments were in institutions rated a or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. our u.s. pension plan trust holds assets totaling $585 million at february 2, 2013. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate funding risk through asset diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk of our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. if our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. we determine fair value based on a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach. if an impairment trigger is identified, the carrying value is compared to its estimated fair value and provisions for impairment are recorded as appropriate. impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our strategic long-range plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict accurately. any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 5 table of contents our financial results may be adversely affected by tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax results by tax jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits. a substantial portion of our cash and investments is invested outside of the u.s. as we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings outside the u.s., in accordance with u.s. gaap, we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. recent proposals to reform u.s. tax rules may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of u.s. income tax on our foreign earnings, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. any of these changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. additionally, public health issues may disrupt the operations of our suppliers, our operations, our customers, or have an adverse effect on customer demand. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements. we require our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety and environmental standards. we monitor compliance with our policies and procedures using internal resources, as well as third-party monitoring firms. although we monitor their compliance with these policies and procedures, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternate manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise, or damage our reputation. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate four distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the u.s., canada, australia, and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. 6 table of contents our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. we enter into diesel fuel forward and option contracts to mitigate a portion of the risk associated with the variability caused by these surcharges. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. there is a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, system implementation issues, viruses, malicious hackers, sabotage, or other causes. our business involves the storage and transmission of customers personal information, such as consumer preferences and credit card information. we invest in industry-standard security technology to protect the company data and business processes against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-attacks. our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes, as well as enforcement of standard data protection policies such as payment card industry compliance. we measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate critical findings. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification measures. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. while we believe that our security technology and processes are adequate in preventing security breaches and in reducing cyber security risks, given the ever-increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cyber security measures and given our reliance on the security and other efforts of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective, and any such security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber-attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to us, our employees, and those with whom we do business. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by us could also severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, and harm our business. while we carry insurance that would mitigate the losses to an extent, such insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses. risks associated with digital operations. our digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and mobile sites and their related support systems, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, and similar disruptions. also, we may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our digital commerce. business risks related to digital commerce include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the internet, and collection of sales or other taxes by additional states or foreign jurisdictions. if any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 7 table of contents our reliance on key management, store and field associates. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management team, as well as store personnel and field management. our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified associates. many of the store and field associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. in addition, a large number of our retail employees are paid the prevailing minimum wage, which if increased would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks arising from recent activity by the national labor relations board in the united states. the national labor relations board continually considers changes to labor regulations, many of which could significantly affect the nature of labor relations in the u.s. and how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. in 2011, the national labor relations board definition of a bargaining unit changed, making it possible for smaller groups of employees to organize labor unions. furthermore, recent regulations may streamline the election process, shortening the time between the filing of a petition and an election being held. these regulations and recent decisions could impose more labor relations requirements and union activity on our business conducted in the united states, thereby potentially increasing our costs, which could negatively affect our profitability. health care reform could adversely affect our business. in 2010, congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation and the large number of eligible employees who currently choose not to participate in our plans, it is difficult to predict the overall effect of the statute and related regulations on our business over the coming years. eligible employees who currently choose not to participate in our healthcare plans may find it more advantageous to do so when recent changes to healthcare laws in the united states become effective in 2014. such changes include tax penalties to persons for not obtaining healthcare coverage and being ineligible for certain healthcare subsidies if an employee is eligible for healthcare coverage under an employer's plan. if a large number of current eligible employees, who currently choose not to participate in our plans, choose to enroll when, or after, the law becomes effective, it may significantly increase our healthcare coverage costs and negatively affect our financial results. legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. there has been an increasing focus and significant debate on global climate change recently, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies globally. this increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as-yet unspecified array of environmental matters. legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the united states to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes or in the cost of transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. we are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business. 8 table of contents we may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments. we are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively impact our operations. changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs such as health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters, including class actions and patent infringement claims, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. we operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which is broader in scope than the fcpa, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. our continued expansion outside the u.s., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. we continue to document, test, and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; however we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock, and market confidence in our reported financial information. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underrisk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. our inability to implement our strategic long range plan may adversely affect our future results. our ability to successfully implement and execute our long range plan is dependent on many factors. our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention, which may result in the diversion of these resources from our core business and other business issues and opportunities. additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance of our products and renovated store design, competition, product differentiation, and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. if we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to sales, operating margins, and earnings per share, would likely result in volatility in the market value of our stock. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, price, quality, advertising, and customer service. our success also depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors with respect to shopping convenience, a quality assortment of available merchandise and superior customer service. we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant vendors distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some vendors operate retail stores and some have indicated that further retail stores and venues will open. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our vendors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, product innovations, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. in addition, retailers in the athletic industry rely on their vendors to maintain innovation in the products they develop. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or athletic and licensed apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 table of contents if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order the bulk of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain exclusive product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices from a limited number of vendors. in addition, our vendors provide volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances, as well as the ability to negotiate returns of excess or unneeded merchandise. we cannot be certain that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. the company purchased approximately 88 percent of its merchandise in 2013 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. approximately 68 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchased 39 to 80 percent of their merchandise from nike. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we depend on mall traffic and our ability to secure suitable store locations. our stores are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. our sales are dependent, in part, on the volume of mall traffic. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other factors, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores and/or specialty stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, or public health or safety concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in affected areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available at favorable rates. some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by the overall poor economic conditions as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, particularly in the united states and canada, and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with these landlords would negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. 3 table of contents we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, product innovation, the highly competitive retail sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, and weather conditions. many of our products represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2013 was attributable to our operations in europe, canada, australia, and new zealand. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states such as foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate, foreign currency fluctuations, real estate costs, and labor and employment practices in non-u.s. jurisdictions that may differ significantly from those that prevail in the united states. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. fluctuations in the value of the euro may affect the value of our european earnings when translated into u.s. dollars. although we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar. macroeconomic developments may adversely affect our business. our performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related impact on consumer spending levels. continued uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, and lower home prices. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting reductions to their discretionary purchasing behavior. these and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services and our financial condition and operating results. instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. past disruptions in the u.s. and global credit and equity markets made it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until january 27, 2017, and other than amounts used for standby letters of credit, do not have any borrowings under it, tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. additionally, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics, including lease-adjusted leverage ratios. 4 table of contents we rely on a few key vendors for a majority of our merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor). the inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at february 1, 2014, our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $867 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. as of february 1, 2014, we had $426 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. we continually monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties. at february 1, 2014, almost all of the investments were in institutions rated a or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. our u.s. pension plan trust holds assets totaling $575 million at february 1, 2014. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate funding risk through asset diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk of our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. if our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. as of february 1, 2014, we have $163 million of goodwill; this asset is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test, which consists of either a qualitative assessment on a reporting unit level, or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. the determination of impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our strategic long-range plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict accurately. any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. our financial results may be adversely affected by tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax results by tax jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits. a substantial portion of our cash and investments is invested outside of the u.s. as we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings outside the u.s., in accordance with u.s. gaap, we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. recent proposals to reform u.s. tax rules may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of u.s. income tax on our foreign earnings, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. any of these changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 5 table of contents the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. additionally, public health issues may disrupt the operations of our suppliers, our operations, our customers, or have an adverse effect on customer demand. our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. however, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements. we require our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety, and environmental standards. we monitor compliance with our policies and procedures using internal resources, as well as third-party monitoring firms. although we monitor their compliance with these policies and procedures, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternate manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise, or damage our reputation. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate six distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the u.s., canada, australia, and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. we enter into diesel fuel forward and option contracts to mitigate a portion of the risk associated with the variability caused by these surcharges. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm our business and standing with our customers. information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. there is a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, system implementation issues, viruses, malicious hackers, sabotage, or other causes. 6 table of contents our business involves the storage and transmission of customers personal information, such as consumer preferences and credit card information. we invest in security technology to protect the company data and business processes against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-attacks. our data security management program includes enforcement of standard data protection policies such as payment card industry compliance. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification measures. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. while we believe that our security technology and processes are adequate in preventing security breaches and in reducing cyber security risks, given the ever-increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cyber security measures and given our reliance on the security and other efforts of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective, and any such security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber-attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to us, our employees, and those with whom we do business. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by us could also severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, and harm our business. while we carry insurance that would mitigate the losses to an extent, such insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses. risks associated with digital operations. our digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and mobile sites and their related support systems, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, and similar disruptions. also, we may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our digital commerce. business risks related to digital commerce include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation, legal uncertainties with respect to the internet, and collection of sales or other taxes by additional states or foreign jurisdictions. if any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reliance on key management. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management team. our executives and senior management team have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. while we feel that we have adequate succession planning and executive development programs, competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain and attract qualified executives. risks associated with attracting and retaining store and field associates. many of the store and field associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, overtime regulations, and changing demographics. in addition, a large number of our retail employees are paid the prevailing minimum wage which, if increased, would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks arising from recent activity by the national labor relations board in the united states. the national labor relations board continually considers changes to labor regulations, many of which could significantly affect the nature of labor relations in the u.s. and how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. in 2011, the national labor relations board definition of a bargaining unit changed, making it possible for smaller groups of employees to organize labor unions. 7 table of contents furthermore, recent proposed regulations may streamline the election process, shortening the time between the filing of a petition and an election being held. these regulations and recent decisions could impose more labor relations requirements and union activity on our business conducted in the united states, thereby potentially increasing our costs, which could negatively affect our profitability. health care reform could adversely affect our business. in 2010, congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation and the large number of eligible employees who currently choose not to participate in our plans, it is difficult to predict the overall effect of the statute and related regulations on our business over the coming years. due to the health care law changes some eligible employees who had historically not chosen to participate in our health care plans have found it more advantageous to participate in our plans effective january 1, 2014. such changes include tax penalties to persons for not obtaining healthcare coverage and being ineligible for certain health care subsidies if an employee is eligible for health care coverage under an employer plan. if a larger number of current eligible employees, who currently choose not to participate in our plans, choose to enroll over the next few years it may significantly increase our health care coverage costs and negatively affect our financial results. legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. there has been an increasing focus and significant debate on global climate change recently, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. this increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as-yet unspecified array of environmental matters. legislative, regulatory, or other efforts in the united states to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes or in the cost of transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. we are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business. we may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments. we are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively impact our operations. changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs such as health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters, including class actions and patent infringement claims, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. we operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which is broader in scope than the fcpa, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. our continued expansion outside the u.s., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 8 table of contents failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. we continue to document, test, and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; however we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock, and market confidence in our reported financial information. risk associated with our recent acquisition. during the second quarter of 2013, the company acquired runners point group, a specialty athletic store and online retailer based in recklinghausen, germany. the acquisition of runners point group involves a number of risks, which could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: failure of runners point group to achieve the results that we expect; diversion of management attention from operational matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel; potential difficulties associated with the retention of key personnel; and increased business concentration in germany. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underrisk factors 2 risk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. our inability to implement our strategic long range plan may adversely affect our future results. our ability to successfully implement and execute our long-range plan is dependent on many factors. our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention, which may result in the diversion of these resources from our core business and other business issues and opportunities. additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance of our products and renovated store designs, competition, product differentiation, and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. if we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long-range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to sales, operating margins, and earnings per share, would likely result in volatility in the market value of our stock. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, mass merchandisers, and internet retailers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, quality, advertising, price, and customer service. our success also depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors with respect to a quality merchandise assortment and superior customer service. we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors, and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors, into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant suppliers distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some of our suppliers currently operate retail stores and some have indicated that they intend to open additional retail stores. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, product innovations, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. in addition, retailers in the athletic industry rely on their suppliers to maintain innovation in the products they develop. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from suppliers. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or athletic apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 table of contents if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order most of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a change in the relationship with any of our key suppliers or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain exclusive product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, our suppliers provide volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances, as well as the ability to negotiate returns of excess or unneeded merchandise. we cannot be certain that such terms with our suppliers will continue in the future. the company purchased approximately 89 percent of its merchandise in 2014 from its top five suppliers and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. approximately 73 percent was purchased from one supplier nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchased 47 to 84 percent of their merchandise from nike. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our suppliers based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our suppliers will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we depend on mall traffic and our ability to secure suitable store locations. our stores are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. our sales are dependent, in part, on the volume of mall traffic. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other factors, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores and/or specialty stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, or public health or safety concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in affected areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available at favorable rates. some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by economic conditions as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, particularly in the united states, canada, and australia, and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with these landlords would negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. 3 table of contents we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, product innovation, the highly competitive retail sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, supply chain disruptions, and weather conditions. many of our products represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. economic or political conditions in other countries, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates may adversely affect our operations. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2014 was attributable to our operations in europe, canada, australia, and new zealand. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states such as foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate, foreign currency fluctuations, real estate costs, and labor and employment practices in non-u.s. jurisdictions that may differ significantly from those that prevail in the united states. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. fluctuations in the value of the euro may affect the value of our european earnings when translated into u.s. dollars. similarly our earnings in canada, australia, and new zealand may be affected by the value of currencies when translated into u.s. dollars. our operating results may be adversely affected by significant changes in these foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar. for the most part, our international subsidiaries transact in their functional currency, other than in the u.k., whose inventory purchases are denominated in euro, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. macroeconomic developments may adversely affect our business. our performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related impact on consumer spending levels. continued uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, and lower home prices. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting reductions to their discretionary purchasing behavior. these and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and our financial condition and operating results. instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. any instability in the global financial markets could result in diminished credit availability. although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until january 27, 2017, and other than amounts used for standby letters of credit, do not have any borrowings under it, tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. 4 table of contents we rely on a few key suppliers for a majority of our merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key supplier). the inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at january 31, 2015, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $967 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. as of january 31, 2015, we had $537 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. we continually monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties. at january 31, 2015, almost all of the investments were in institutions rated a or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. our u.s. pension plan trust holds assets totaling $613 million at january 31, 2015. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate funding risk through asset diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk of our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. if our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. as of january 31, 2015, we had $157 million of goodwill; this asset is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test, which consists of either a qualitative assessment on a reporting unit level, or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. the determination of impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our strategic long-range plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict accurately. any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill, and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. our financial results may be adversely affected by tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax results by tax jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits. a substantial portion of our cash and investments is invested outside of the united states. as we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, in accordance with u.s. gaap, we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. recent proposals to reform u.s. tax rules may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of u.s. income tax on our foreign earnings, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. any of these changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 5 table of contents the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from suppliers for sale to our customers. public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. additionally, public health issues may disrupt, or have an adverse effect on, our suppliers operations, our operations, our customers, or customer demand. our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. however, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements. we require our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety, and environmental standards. we monitor compliance with our policies and procedures using internal resources, as well as third-party monitoring firms. although we monitor their compliance with these policies and procedures, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternate manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise, or damage our reputation. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate multiple distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the united states, canada, australia, and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or if any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may be unable to support the resulting additional distribution demands. we may be affected by disruptions in the global transportation network such as a port strike, weather conditions, work stoppages or other labor unrest. these factors may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges, among and other factors, may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. we enter into diesel fuel forward and option contracts to mitigate a portion of the risk associated with the variability caused by these surcharges. disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm our business and standing with our customers. information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. there is a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center or data leakage of confidential information, either internally or at our third-party providers. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, system implementation issues, viruses, malicious hackers, sabotage, or other causes. 6 table of contents our business involves the storage and transmission of customers personal information, such as consumer preferences and credit card information. we invest in security technology to protect the data stored by the company, as well as our data and business processes, against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-attacks. our data security management program includes enforcement of standard data protection policies such as payment card industry compliance. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification measures. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. while we believe that our security technology and processes follow leading practices in the prevention of security breaches and the mitigation of cyber security risks, given the ever-increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cyber security measures and given the necessity of our reliance on the security procedures of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective. any such security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber-attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and negative consequences to us, our employees, and those with whom we do business. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by us could also severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, and harm our business. while we carry insurance that would mitigate the losses, such insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses. risks associated with digital operations. our digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and mobile sites and their related support systems, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, and similar disruptions. also, we may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our digital commerce. business risks related to digital commerce include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet cyber security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation, legal uncertainties with respect to internet regulatory compliance, and collection of sales or other taxes by additional states or foreign jurisdictions. if any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reliance on key management. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management team. our executive and senior management team have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our recent growth and success. our future performance depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. while we feel that we have adequate succession planning and executive development programs, competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain and attract qualified executives. risks associated with attracting and retaining store and field associates. many of the store and field associates are in entry level or part-time positions which, historically, have had high rates of turnover. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, overtime regulations, and changing demographics. we face risks arising from activity by the national labor relations board in the united states. the national labor relations board continually considers changes to labor regulations, many of which could significantly affect the nature of labor relations in the united states and how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. the national labor relations board current definition of a bargaining unit makes it possible for smaller groups of employees to organize labor unions. 7 table of contents furthermore, recent regulations shorten the election process, significantly reducing the time between the filing of a petition and an election being held. these regulations and recent decisions could impose more labor relations requirements and union activity on our business conducted in the united states, thereby potentially increasing our costs, which could negatively affect our profitability. health care reform could adversely affect our business. in 2010, congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. due to the breadth and complexity of the health care reform legislation and the large number of eligible employees who currently choose not to participate in our plans, it is difficult to predict the overall effect of the statute and related regulations on our business over the coming years. due to the health care law changes, some eligible employees who had historically not chosen to participate in our health care plans have found it more advantageous to participate in our plans effective january 1, 2015. such changes include tax penalties to persons for not obtaining health care coverage and being ineligible for certain health care subsidies if an employee is eligible for health care coverage under an employer plan. if a larger number of eligible employees, who currently choose not to participate in our plans, choose to enroll over the next few years, it may significantly increase our health care coverage costs and negatively affect our financial results. legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. there has been an increasing focus and significant debate on global climate change, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. this increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as-yet unspecified array of environmental matters. legislative, regulatory, or other efforts in the united states to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes or in the cost of transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. we are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business. we may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments. we are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively impact our operations. changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs, such as health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters, including class actions and patent infringement claims, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. we operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which is broader in scope than the fcpa, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. our continued expansion outside the united states, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of fcpa violations in the future. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 8 table of contents failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock. we continue to document, test, and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; however, we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underrisk factors 2 risk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. our inability to implement our strategic long range plan may adversely affect our future results. our ability to successfully implement and execute our long-range plan is dependent on many factors. our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention, which may result in the diversion of these resources from our core business and other business issues and opportunities. additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance of our products and renovated store designs, competition, product differentiation, and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. if we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long-range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to sales, operating margins, and earnings per share, would likely result in volatility in the market value of our stock. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, mass merchandisers, and internet retailers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, quality, advertising, price, and customer service. our success also depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors with respect to a quality merchandise assortment and superior customer service. we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors, and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant suppliers operate retail stores and distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, product innovations, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. in addition, retailers in the athletic industry rely on their suppliers to maintain innovation in the products they develop. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from suppliers. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or athletic apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 table of contents if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order most of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a change in the relationship with any of our key suppliers or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain exclusive product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, our suppliers provide volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances, as well as the ability to negotiate returns of excess or unneeded merchandise. we cannot be certain that such terms with our suppliers will continue in the future. the company purchased approximately 90 percent of its merchandise in 2015 from its top five suppliers and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. approximately 72 percent of all merchandise purchased in 2015 was purchased from one supplier nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchased 55 to 82 percent of their merchandise from nike. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our suppliers based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our suppliers will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we depend on mall traffic and our ability to secure suitable store locations. our stores are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. our sales are dependent, in part, on the volume of mall traffic. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other factors, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores and/or specialty stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, public health or safety concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in affected areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available at favorable rates. some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by economic conditions as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, particularly in the united states, canada, and australia, and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with these landlords would negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. 3 table of contents we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, product innovation, the highly competitive retail sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, supply chain disruptions, and weather conditions. many of our products represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. economic or political conditions in other countries, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates may adversely affect our operations. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2015 was attributable to our operations in europe, canada, australia, and new zealand. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states such as local customer product preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate, foreign currency fluctuations, real estate costs, and labor and employment practices in non-u.s. jurisdictions that may differ significantly from those that prevail in the united states. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. fluctuations in the value of the euro may affect the value of our european earnings when translated into u.s. dollars. similarly our earnings in canada, australia, and new zealand may be affected by the value of currencies when translated into u.s. dollars. our operating results may be adversely affected by significant changes in these foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar. for the most part, our international subsidiaries transact in their functional currency, other than in the u.k., whose inventory purchases are denominated in euro, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. macroeconomic developments may adversely affect our business. our performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related impact on consumer spending levels. continued uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, and lower home values. there is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting reductions to their discretionary purchasing behavior. these and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. any instability in the global financial markets could result in diminished credit availability. although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until january 27, 2017, and other than amounts used for standby letters of credit, we do not have any borrowings under it, tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. 4 table of contents we rely on a few key suppliers for a majority of our merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key supplier). the inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at january 30, 2016, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $1,021 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. as of january 30, 2016, $608 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held in foreign jurisdictions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. we continually monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties. at january 30, 2016, almost all of the investments were in institutions rated a or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. our u.s. pension plan trust holds assets totaling $544 million at january 30, 2016. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate funding risk through asset diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk of our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. if our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. as of january 30, 2016, we had $156 million of goodwill; this asset is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test, which consists of either a qualitative assessment on a reporting unit level, or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. the determination of impairment charges is significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our strategic long-range plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by factors such as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict accurately. any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill, and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. our financial results may be adversely affected by tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax results by tax jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits. a substantial portion of our cash and investments is invested outside of the united states. as we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, in accordance with u.s. gaap, we have not provided for u.s. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. recent proposals to reform u.s. tax rules may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of u.s. income tax on our foreign earnings, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. any of these changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 5 table of contents the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from suppliers for sale to our customers. public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. additionally, public health issues may disrupt, or have an adverse effect on, our suppliers operations, our operations, our customers, or customer demand. our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. however, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements. we require our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety, and environmental standards. we monitor compliance with our policies and procedures using internal resources, as well as third-party monitoring firms. although we monitor their compliance with these policies and procedures, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternate manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise, or damage our reputation. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate multiple distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the united states, canada, australia, and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or if any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may be unable to support the resulting additional distribution demands. we may be affected by disruptions in the global transportation network such as a port strike, weather conditions, work stoppages or other labor unrest. these factors may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges, among other factors, may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. we enter into diesel fuel forward and option contracts to mitigate a portion of the risk associated with the variability caused by these surcharges. we are subject to technology risks including failures, security breaches, and cybersecurity risks which could harm our business, damage our reputation, and increase our costs in an effort to protect against such risks. information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. we depend on information systems to process transactions, make operational decisions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. there is a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center or data leakage of confidential information, either internally or at our third-party providers. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, system implementation issues, viruses, malicious hackers, sabotage, or other causes. 6 table of contents our business involves the storage and transmission of customers personal information, including consumer preferences and credit card information. in an effort to enhance the security of our customers credit card information, during 2015 we implemented an encryption and tokenization platform for certain credit card transactions, whereby no credit card data is stored in our internal systems, with plans to expand this platform to the entire company. we invest in security technology to protect the data stored by the company, including our data and business processes, against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-attacks. our data security management program includes enforcement of standard data protection policies such as payment card industry compliance. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification measures. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. we also maintain an it security incident response plan and routinely perform a table-top exercise with key it and business stakeholders. while we believe that our security technology and processes follow leading practices in the prevention of security breaches and the mitigation of cybersecurity risks, given the ever-increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cybersecurity measures and given the necessity of our reliance on the security procedures of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective. any such security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber-attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and negative consequences to us, our employees, and those with whom we do business. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by us could also severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, increase operating costs associated with remediation, and harm our business. while we carry insurance that would mitigate the losses, such insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses. risks associated with digital operations. our digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and mobile sites and their related support systems, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, denial of service attacks, and similar disruptions. also, we may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our digital commerce. business risks related to digital commerce include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet cybersecurity risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation, legal uncertainties with respect to internet regulatory compliance, and collection of sales or other taxes by additional states or foreign jurisdictions. if any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. the technology enablement of omni-channel in our business is complex and involves the development of a new digital platform and a new order management system in order to enhance the complete customer experience. we continue to invest in initiatives geared towards delivering a high-quality, coordinated shopping experience online, in-stores, and on mobile, which requires substantial investment in technology, information systems, employees, and management time and resources. our omni-channel retailing efforts include the integration and implementation of new technology, software and processes to be able to fulfill orders from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers, which is extremely complex and may not meet customer expectations for timely and accurate deliveries. these efforts involve substantial risk, including risk of implementation delays, cost overruns, technology interruptions, supply and distribution delays, and other issues that can affect the successful implementation and operation of our omni-channel initiatives. if our omni-channel initiatives are not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our financial performance and future growth could be materially adversely affected. our reliance on key management. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management team. our executive and senior management teams have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our recent growth and success. our future performance 7 table of contents depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. while we feel that we have adequate succession planning and executive development programs, competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain and attract qualified executives. risks associated with attracting and retaining store and field associates. many of the store and field associates are in entry level or part-time positions which, historically, have had high rates of turnover. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, overtime regulations, and changing demographics. changes in employment laws or regulation could harm our performance. various foreign and domestic labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. these laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, paid time off, work scheduling, healthcare reform and the implementation of the patient protection and affordable care act, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, works council requirements, and union membership. a number of factors could adversely affect our operating results, including additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, and changing regulations from the national labor relations board or other agencies. legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. there has been an increasing focus and significant debate on global climate change, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. this increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as-yet unspecified array of environmental matters. legislative, regulatory, or other efforts in the united states to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes or in the cost of transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. we are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on our business. we may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments. we are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively impact our operations. changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs, such as health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters, including class actions and patent infringement claims, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. we operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which is broader in scope than the fcpa, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. 8 table of contents our continued expansion outside the united states, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of fcpa violations in the future. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock. we continue to document, test, and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; however, we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding interest rate risk management and foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management footnote underquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding interest rate risk management and foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management footnote underrisk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k and incorporated by reference ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the words may, believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. the actual results of the future events described in such forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. accordingly, readers of the annual report should consider these facts in evaluating the information and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein. we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences on the date of sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. for example, we order athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to accurately anticipate either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers of athletic footwear. any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or licensed apparel less attractive to these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are price, quality, selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising and customer service. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet through footlocker.com and its affiliates, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, some of the manufacturers of our products distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. should this occur and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our manufacturers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we depend on mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations. our sales, particularly in the united states and canada, are dependent in part on a high volume of mall traffic. our stores are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores or changes in customer preferences or acts of terrorism. a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on us. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot assure you that desirable mall locations will continue to be available. 2 the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices, including the receipt of volume discounts and cooperative advertising and other allowances from our vendors. the company purchased approximately 75 percent of its merchandise in 2005 from its top five vendors, and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. of that amount approximately 49 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). we have no long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike financial condition and results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot assure you that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise in the future. in addition, our vendors provide support to us through cooperative advertising allowances and promotional events. we cannot assure you that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable store sales results. our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods and weather conditions. many of our products, particularly high-end athletic footwear and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. approximately 25 percent of our sales and a significant portion of our operating profits for 2005 were attributable to our sales in europe, canada, new zealand and australia. as a result, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business outside of the united states, such as foreign governmental regulations, foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate. although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the value of the u.s. dollar as it relates to certain foreign currencies. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions and economic, labor and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. 3 our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. purchases of discretionary athletic footwear, apparel and related products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and customers are hesitant to use available credit. complications in our distribution centers may affect our business. we operate three distribution centers worldwide to support our athletic business. if complications arise with any one facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, the other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. a major failure of our information systems could harm our business. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our website, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed which could have a negative impact on our business. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. we cannot assure that our systems will be adequate to support future growth. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding interest rate risk management and foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management footnote underrisk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k and incorporated by reference ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the words may, believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. the actual results of the future events described in these forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. accordingly, readers of the annual report should consider these risks and uncertainties in evaluating the information and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein. we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. for example, we order athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers of athletic footwear. any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or licensed apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are price, quality, selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising, and customer service. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, some of our vendors distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some vendors operate retail stores and some have indicated that further retail stores will open. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our vendors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 we depend on mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations. our sales, particularly in the united states and canada, are dependent in part on a high volume of mall traffic. our stores are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores or changes in customer preferences or acts of terrorism. a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on us. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available. the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices, including the receipt of volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances from our vendors. the company purchased approximately 78 percent of its merchandise in 2006 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. approximately 50 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike, they individually purchase 40 to 65 percent of their merchandise from nike. we have no long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike financial condition and results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. in addition, our vendors provide support to us through cooperative advertising allowances and promotional events. we cannot be certain that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, and weather conditions. many of our products, particularly high-end athletic footwear and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 3 our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. approximately 24 percent of our sales and a significant portion of our operating profits for 2006 were attributable to our sales in europe, canada, new zealand, and australia. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, such as foreign governmental regulations, foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate. although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the value of the u.s. dollar as it relates to certain foreign currencies. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. purchases of discretionary athletic footwear, apparel, and related products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and customers are hesitant to use available credit. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate three distribution centers worldwide to support our athletic business. if complications arise with any facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, the other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon ups for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by ups for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. a major failure of our information systems could harm our business. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our website, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed which could have a negative effect on our business. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. we cannot be assured that our systems will be adequate to support future growth. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding interest rate risk management and foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management footnote underrisk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the words may, believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. the actual results of the future events described in these forward-looking statements could differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. accordingly, readers of the annual report should consider these risks and uncertainties in evaluating the information and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein. we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. for example, we order the bulk of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers of athletic footwear. any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or licensed apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are price, quality, selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising, and customer service. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, some of our vendors distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some vendors operate retail stores and some have indicated that further retail stores will open. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our vendors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 we depend on mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations. our sales, particularly in the united states and canada, are dependent in part on a high volume of mall traffic. our stores are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores or changes in customer preferences or acts of terrorism. a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on us. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available. the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices, including the receipt of volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances from our vendors. the company purchased approximately 77 percent of its merchandise in 2007 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. approximately 56 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchase 43 to 74 percent of their merchandise from nike. we have no long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike financial condition and results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. in addition, our vendors provide support to us through cooperative advertising allowances and promotional events. we cannot be certain that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, and weather conditions. many of our products, particularly high-end athletic footwear and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 3 our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. approximately 27 percent of our sales and a significant portion of our operating results for 2007 were attributable to our sales in europe, canada, new zealand, and australia. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, such as foreign governmental regulations, foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate. although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the value of the u.s. dollar as it relates to certain foreign currencies. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. purchases of discretionary athletic footwear, apparel, and related products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and customers are hesitant to use available credit. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate four distribution centers worldwide to support our athletic business. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have additional third-party arrangements related to our operations in canada, australia and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, the other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon ups for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by ups for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. a major failure of our information systems could harm our business. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our website, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed which could have a negative effect on our business. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. we cannot be assured that our systems will be adequate to support future growth. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether through a breach of the company computer system or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of the company normal course of business, it collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential customer information. despite the security measurers the company has in place, its facilities and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human error, or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by the company could severely damage its reputation, expose it to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt its operations and harm its business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding interest rate risk management and foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management footnote underrisk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. we reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to improve our internal controls, our financial results may not be accurately reported. management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of january 31, 2009 identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting designed to ensure proper accounting for income taxes, as described in item 9a. controls and procedures. this material weakness, or difficulties encountered in implementing new or improved controls or remediation, could prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results, result in material misstatements in our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. failure to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from vendors. for example, we order the bulk of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and licensed apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers of athletic footwear. any shift in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or licensed apparel less attractive to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores and superstores, department stores, discount stores, traditional shoe stores, and mass merchandisers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are price, quality, selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising, and customer service. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell merchandise via the internet, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, some of our vendors distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. some vendors operate retail stores and some have indicated that further retail stores will open. should this continue to occur, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our vendors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 we depend on mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations. our sales, particularly in the united states and canada, are dependent in part on a high volume of mall traffic. our stores are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of anchor department stores or changes in customer preferences or acts of terrorism. a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on us. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. we cannot be certain that desirable mall locations will continue to be available. the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, and tornados may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from vendors for sale to our customers. any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. a change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices, including the receipt of volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances from our vendors. the company purchased approximately 80 percent of its merchandise in 2008 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. approximately 64 percent was purchased from one vendor nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike; they individually purchase 44 to 78 percent of their merchandise from nike. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers (particularly nike) as a result of business decisions by our suppliers or any disruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of our strong dependence on nike, any adverse development in nike financial condition and results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our vendors based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our vendors will continue to allocate sufficient amounts of such merchandise to us in the future. in addition, our vendors provide support to us through cooperative advertising allowances and promotional events. we cannot be certain that such assistance from our vendors will continue in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may experience fluctuations in and cyclicality of our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, the highly competitive retail store sales environment, economic conditions, timing of promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, and weather conditions. many of our products, particularly high-end athletic footwear and licensed apparel, represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in a recession or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 3 our operations may be adversely affected by economic or political conditions in other countries. approximately 28 percent of our sales and a significant portion of our operating results for 2008 were attributable to our sales in europe, canada, new zealand, and australia. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, such as foreign governmental regulations, foreign customer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate. although we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and option contracts to reduce the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our operations may be adversely affected by significant changes in the value of the u.s. dollar as it relates to certain foreign currencies. in addition, because we and our suppliers have a substantial amount of our products manufactured in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, and economic, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. purchases of discretionary athletic footwear, apparel, and related products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and customers are hesitant to use available credit. the effect of deteriorating global economic conditions and financial markets may adversely affect our business. the company performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related impact on consumer spending levels, which have declined recently due to the current economic slowdown. some of the factors affecting consumer spending are employment, levels of consumer debt, reductions in net worth as a result of recent severe market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, as well as other macroeconomic factors. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including merchandise we sell, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. the downturn in the global economy may continue to affect customer purchases for the foreseeable future and may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, declines in our profitability could result in a charge to earnings for the impairment of goodwill, which would not affect our cash flow but could decrease our earnings, and our stock price could be adversely affected. the recent distress in the financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability. there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. although we currently do not have any borrowings under our revolving credit facility (other than amounts used for standby letters of credits), tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. in addition, the current credit situation is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this situation on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. the company relies on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor). the inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if our long-lived assets, goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. we determine fair value based on a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach. if an impairment trigger is identified, the carrying value is compared to its estimated fair value and provisions for impairment are recorded as appropriate. impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our three-year plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict. 4 similar to others in our industry, the recent macroeconomic conditions have affected both our performance, as well as our stock price and market capitalization, and it is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will continue, whether they will continue to deteriorate, and which aspects of our business may be adversely affected. these conditions and the continuation of these conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as of january 31, 2009, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $408 million, of which $380 million was invested in a diversified portfolio of short-term securities. substantially all of our investments were short-term deposits in highly rated banking institutions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. at january 31, 2009, most of the investments were in institutions rated aa- or better from a major credit rating agency. despite those ratings, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. with the current uncertain financial environment and the instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits. the master trust which holds the assets of our u.s. pension plan has assets totaling approximately $346 million as of january 31, 2009. the fair values of these assets held in the master trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding requirements. in addition, the decline in our pension assets will adversely affect pension expense in 2009. complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate four distribution centers worldwide to support our athletic business. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in canada, australia and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, the company other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. this may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon ups for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise. an interruption in service by ups for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. our freight cost is affected by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales. a major failure of our information systems could harm our business. we depend on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed, which could have a negative effect on our business. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. we cannot be assured that our systems will be adequate to support future growth. risks associated with internet operations. our internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunications failures and similar disruptions. also, we may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our online commerce. 5 business risks related to online commerce include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, government regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the internet, and collection of sales or other taxes by one or more states or foreign jurisdictions. if any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. risk associated with our recent acquisition. during the fourth quarter of 2008, we acquired ccs, a leading direct-to-customer retailer that sells skateboard equipment, apparel, footwear and accessories though catalogs and the internet. we have substantially completed the integration of ccs during the fourth quarter 2008, including moving all personnel and distribution activities to our corporate office and distribution center, respectively. the acquisition of ccs involves a number of risks, which could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: failure of ccs to achieve the results that we expect; diversion of management attention from operational matters; difficulties integrating the operations and personnel; and potential difficulties associated with the retention of key personnel. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether through a breach of the company computer system or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of the company normal course of business, it collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential customer information. despite the security measures the company has in place, its facilities and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human error, or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by the company could severely damage its reputation, expose it to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt its operations and harm its business. our reliance on key management, store and field associates. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management team, as well as, store personnel and field management. our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified associates. many of the store and field associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. in addition, a large number of our retail employees are paid the prevailing minimum wage, which if increased would negatively affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding interest rate risk management and foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note underrisk factors 1 risk factors the statements contained in this annual report on form 10 k ( annual report ) that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans found in item 1. business and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 1 table of contents please also see disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this annual report, including those discussed below. additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently consider to be insignificant may also affect our business operations and financial performance. our inability to implement our long-range strategic plan may adversely affect our future results. our ability to successfully implement and execute our long-range plan is dependent on many factors. our strategies may require significant capital investment and management attention. additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance of our products and renovated store designs, competition, product differentiation, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and our ability to successfully implement technological initiatives. if we cannot successfully execute our strategic growth initiatives or if the long-range plan does not adequately address the challenges or opportunities we face, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, failure to meet shareholder expectations, particularly with respect to sales, operating margins, and earnings per share, would likely result in volatility in the market value of our stock. the retail athletic footwear and apparel business is highly competitive. our athletic footwear and apparel operations compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores, department stores, traditional shoe stores, mass merchandisers, and internet retailers, many of which are units of national or regional chains that have significant financial and marketing resources. the principal competitive factors in our markets are selection of merchandise, customer experience, reputation, store location, advertising, and price. we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. our expansion into markets served by our competitors, and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. although we sell an increasing proportion of our merchandise via the internet, a significantly faster shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing athletic footwear, athletic apparel, and sporting goods via the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business results. in addition, all of our significant suppliers operate retail stores and distribute products directly through the internet and others may follow. should this continue to occur or accelerate, and if our customers decide to purchase directly from our suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the industry in which we operate is dependent upon fashion trends, customer preferences, product innovations, and other fashion-related factors. the athletic footwear and apparel industry, especially at the premium end of the price spectrum, is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. in addition, retailers in the athletic industry rely on their suppliers to maintain innovation in the products they develop. we cannot guarantee that our merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that we will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise from suppliers. a substantial portion of our highest margin sales are to young males (ages 12 25), many of whom we believe purchase athletic footwear and athletic apparel as a fashion statement and are frequent purchasers. our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends that would make athletic footwear or athletic apparel less attractive to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. however, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory. for example, we order most of our athletic footwear four to six months prior to delivery to our stores. if we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers purchasing habits, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 2 table of contents a change in the relationship with any of our key suppliers or the unavailability of key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to obtain premium product and the ability to purchase brand-name merchandise at competitive prices from a limited number of suppliers. in addition, we have negotiated volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances with our suppliers, as well as the ability to cancel orders and return excess or unneeded merchandise. we cannot be certain that such terms with our suppliers will continue in the future. we purchased approximately 90 percent of our merchandise in 2018 from our top five suppliers and we expect to continue to obtain a significant percentage of our athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. approximately 66 percent of all merchandise purchased in 2018 was purchased from one supplier nike, inc. ( nike ). each of our operating divisions is highly dependent on nike. individually they purchased between 38 to 74 percent of their merchandise from nike during the year. merchandise that is high profile and in high demand is allocated by our suppliers based upon their internal criteria. although we have generally been able to purchase sufficient quantities of this merchandise in the past, we cannot be certain that our suppliers will continue to allocate sufficient amounts to us in the future. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers as a result of business decisions by our suppliers, or any disruption in the supply chain, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. because of the high proportion of purchases from nike, any adverse development in nike reputation, financial condition or results of operations or the inability of nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to our target customers could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to acquire merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are affected by mall traffic and our ability to secure suitable store locations. many of our stores, especially in north america, are located primarily in enclosed regional and neighborhood malls. our sales are affected, in part, by the volume of mall traffic. mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other factors, economic downturns, the closing or continued decline of anchor department stores and/or specialty stores, and a decline in the popularity of mall shopping among our target customers. further, any terrorist act, natural disaster, public health or safety concern that decreases the level of mall traffic, or that affects our ability to open and operate stores in such locations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to take advantage of customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable locations such as in regional and neighborhood malls, as well as high-traffic urban retail areas and high streets. we cannot be certain that desirable locations will continue to be available at favorable rates. some traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic, driven by economic conditions, the closure of certain mall anchor tenants, and changes in customer shopping preferences, such as shopping online. several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls and because of our dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of their financial condition or our relationships with them could negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations. additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms. we may experience fluctuations in, and cyclicality of, our comparable-store sales results. our comparable-store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including, among others, fashion trends, product innovation, promotional events, the highly competitive retail sales environment, economic conditions, timing of income tax refunds, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, supply chain disruptions, and weather conditions. many of our products represent discretionary purchases. accordingly, customer demand for these products could decline in an economic downturn or if our customers develop other priorities for their discretionary spending. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 3 table of contents economic or political conditions in other countries, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates may adversely affect our operations. a significant portion of our sales and operating income for 2018 was attributable to our operations in europe, canada, australia, and new zealand. as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business outside of the united states such as local customer product preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries in which we operate, foreign currency fluctuations, real estate costs, and labor and employment practices in non-u.s. jurisdictions that may differ significantly from those that prevail in the united states. in addition, because our suppliers manufacture a substantial amount of our products in foreign countries, our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on favorable terms may be affected by governmental regulations, trade restrictions, labor, and other conditions in the countries from which our suppliers obtain their product. fluctuations in the value of the euro and the british pound may affect the value of our european earnings when translated into u.s. dollars. similarly, our earnings in canada, australia, and new zealand may be affected by the value of currencies when translated into u.s. dollars. except for our business in the united kingdom (the u.k ), our international subsidiaries conduct most of their business in their local currency. inventory purchases for our u.k. business are denominated in euros, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. fluctuations in tax rates and duties and changes in tax legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. significant developments stemming from the u.k. decision to withdraw from the european union could have a material adverse effect on the company. the u.k. has voted in favor of leaving the european union ( e.u. ), which is commonly referred to as brexit. e.u. rules provide for a two-year negotiation period, currently set to expire on april 12, 2019, unless another extension is agreed to by the parties. significant uncertainty remains about the future relationship between the u.k. and the e.u., including the possibility of the u.k. leaving the e.u. without a negotiated and bilaterally approved withdrawal plan. we have significant operations in both the u.k. and the e.u. , and we are highly dependent on the free flow of labor and goods in those regions. uncertainty surrounding brexit could cause a slowdown in economic activity in the u.k., europe or globally, which could adversely affect the company operating results and growth prospects. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. compliance with any new laws and regulations may be cumbersome, difficult or costly. these possible effects of brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the ultimate effects of brexit on our business will depend on the specific terms of the agreement, if any, the u.k. and the e.u. reach to provide access to each other markets. imposition of tariffs and export controls on the products we buy may have a material adverse effect on our business. a significant portion of the products that we purchase, including the portion purchased from domestic suppliers, as well as most of our private brand merchandise, is manufactured abroad. we may be affected by potential changes in international trade agreements or tariffs, such as new tariffs imposed on certain chinese-made goods imported into the u.s. furthermore, china or other countries may institute retaliatory trade measures in response to existing or future tariffs imposed by the u.s. that could have a negative effect on our business. if any of these events occur as described, we may be obligated to seek alternative suppliers for our private brand merchandise, raise prices, or make changes to our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability, results of operations and financial condition. macroeconomic developments may adversely affect our business. our performance is subject to global economic conditions and the related effects on consumer spending levels. continued uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news, and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. 4 table of contents as a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, increased fuel and energy costs, higher interest rates, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, and lower home values. these and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. instability in the financial markets may adversely affect our business. instability in the global financial markets could reduce availability of credit to our business. although we currently have a revolving credit agreement in place until may 19, 2021, tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or obtain funding through the issuance of the company securities. in 2017, the u.k. financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced its intention to phase out libor by the end of 2021. it is unclear if libor will cease to exist at that time or if new methods of calculating libor will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. if libor ceases to exist, we will need to renegotiate our credit facility. this could have an adverse effect on our financing costs. other than insignificant amounts used for standby letters of credit, we do not have any borrowings under our credit facility. we rely on a few key suppliers for a majority of our merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key supplier). the inability of these key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. our inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. material changes in the market value of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. at february 2, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $891 million. the majority of our investments were short-term deposits in highly-rated banking institutions. we regularly monitor our counterparty credit risk and mitigate our exposure by making short-term investments only in highly-rated institutions and by limiting the amount we invest in any one institution. we continually monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties. at february 2, 2019, all investments were in investment grade institutions. despite an investment grade rating, it is possible that the value or liquidity of our investments may decline due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and bank-specific credit issues. our u.s. pension plan trust holds assets totaling $593 million at february 2, 2019. the fair values of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan projected benefit obligation to determine the pension funding liability. we attempt to mitigate funding risk through asset diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk of our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. such declines could affect the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements. if our long-lived assets or goodwill become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. we review our long-lived assets and goodwill when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. goodwill is reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test, which consists of either a qualitative assessment on a reporting unit level, or a two-step impairment test, if necessary. the determination of impairment charges is significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. our estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from our long-range strategic plans, which are based upon our experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by factors such as our future operating results, future store profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which are difficult to predict accurately. any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets and goodwill and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 5 table of contents we do not have the ability to exert control over our minority investments, and therefore, we are dependent on others in order to realize their potential benefits. we currently hold $104 million of non-controlling minority investments in various entities and we may make additional strategic minority investments in the future. such minority investments inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and compliance risks associated with the investments. other investors in these entities may have business goals and interests that are not aligned with ours or may exercise their rights in a manner in which we do not approve. these circumstances could lead to delayed decisions or disputes and litigation with those other investors, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. if our investees seek additional financing to fund their growth strategies, these financing transactions may result in further dilution of our ownership stakes and these transactions may occur at lower valuations than the investment transactions through which we acquired such interests, which could significantly decrease the fair values of our investments in those entities. additionally, if our investees are unable to obtain any financing, those entities could need to significantly reduce their spending in order to fund their operations. these actions likely would result in reduced growth forecasts, which also could significantly decrease the fair values of our investments in those entities. our financial results may be adversely affected by tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including shifts in the mix of pretax results by tax jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or related interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and tax assessments and related interest and penalties resulting from income tax audits. the effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business. natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes may affect store and distribution center operations. in addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the united states and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from suppliers for sale to our customers. public health issues, such as flu or other pandemics, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business . additionally, public health issues may disrupt, or have an adverse effect on, our suppliers operations, our operations, our customers, or customer demand. our ability to mitigate the adverse effect of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. however, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster. we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products. manufacturer compliance with our social compliance program requirements. we require our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures, which cover many areas including labor, health and safety, and environmental standards. we monitor compliance with our policies and procedures using internal resources, as well as third-party monitoring firms. although we monitor their compliance with these policies and procedures, we do not control the manufacturers or their practices. any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our policies and procedures or local laws in the country of manufacture could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to us, force us to locate alternate manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise, or damage our reputation. 6 table of contents complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. we operate multiple distribution centers worldwide to support our businesses. in addition to the distribution centers that we operate, we have third-party arrangements to support our operations in the united states, canada, australia, and new zealand. if complications arise with any facility or if any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may be unable to support the resulting additional distribution demands. we also may be affected by disruptions in the global transportation network such as port strikes, weather conditions, work stoppages, or other labor unrest. these factors may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis. we depend upon third-party carriers for shipment of merchandise. any interruption in service by these carriers for any reason could cause disruptions in our business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects. we are subject to technology risks including failures, security breaches, and cybersecurity risks that could harm our business, damage our reputation, and increase our costs in an effort to protect against these risks. information technology is a critically important part of our business operations. we depend on information systems to process transactions, make operational decisions, manage inventory, operate our websites, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations . there is a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center or data leakage of confidential information, either internally or at our third-party providers. we may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, system implementation issues, viruses, malicious hackers, sabotage, or other causes. we invest in security technology to protect the data stored by us, including our data and business processes, against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-attacks. our data security management program includes enforcement of standard data protection policies such as payment card industry compliance. additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification measures. we maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. while we believe that our security technology and processes follow leading practices in the prevention of security breaches and the mitigation of cybersecurity risks, given the ever-increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cybersecurity measures and given the necessity of our reliance on the security procedures of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective. any security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber-attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and negative consequences to us, our employees, and those with whom we do business. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information by us could also severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, increase operating costs associated with remediation, and harm our business. while we carry insurance that would mitigate the losses, insurance may be insufficient to compensate us fully for potentially significant losses. risks associated with digital operations. our digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites, mobile sites, and apps and their related support systems, computer viruses, cybersecurity risks, telecommunications failures, denial of service attacks, bot attacks, and similar disruptions. also, we will require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our digital commerce business. risks related to digital commerce include those associated with credit card fraud, the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, governmental regulation, and legal uncertainties with respect to internet regulatory compliance. if any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. privacy and data security concerns and regulation could result in additional costs and liabilities. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. 7 table of contents any actual or perceived misappropriation or breach involving this data could attract negative media attention, cause harm to our reputation or result in liability (including but not limited to fines, penalties or lawsuits), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position, and cash flows. additionally, the e.u. adopted a comprehensive general data privacy regulation (the gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018. gdpr requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection, and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete data about themselves. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4 percent of worldwide revenue. in addition, the state of california adopted the california consumer protection act of 2018 ("ccpa"), which will become effective in 2020 and will regulate the collection and use of consumers' data. gdpr, ccpa and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices. the technology enablement of omni-channel in our business is complex and involves the development of a new digital platform and a new order management system designed to enhance the complete customer experience. we continue to invest in initiatives designed to deliver a high-quality, coordinated shopping experience online, in stores, and on mobile devices, which requires substantial investment in technology, information systems, and employee training, as well as significant management time and resources. our omni-channel retailing efforts include the integration and implementation of new technology, software, and processes to be able to fulfill orders from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers, which is extremely complex and may not meet customer expectations for timely and accurate deliveries. these efforts involve substantial risk, including risk of implementation delays, cost overruns, technology interruptions, supply and distribution delays, and other issues that can affect the successful implementation and operation of our omni-channel initiatives. if our omni-channel initiatives are not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our financial performance and future growth could be materially adversely affected. our reliance on key management. future performance will depend upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our executive and senior management teams. our executive and senior management teams have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our success. our future performance depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management teams, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management in the future. while we believe that we have adequate succession planning and executive development programs, competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot retain and attract qualified executives. risks associated with attracting and retaining store and field associates. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified store and field associates. the turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high. if we are unable to attract and retain quality associates, our ability to meet our growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and overtime regulations. changes in employment laws or regulation could harm our performance. various foreign and domestic labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. these laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime and sick pay, paid time off, work scheduling, healthcare reform and the patient protection and affordable care act, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, european works council requirements, and union organization. a number of factors could adversely affect our operating results, including additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime and sick pay, paid leaves of absence, mandated health benefits, and changing regulations from the national labor relations board or other agencies. complying with any new legislation or reversing changes implemented under existing law could be time-intensive and expensive and may affect our business. 8 table of contents legislative or regulatory initiatives related to climate change concerns may negatively affect our business. greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. concern over climate change may result in new or additional legal, legislative, and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment, which could result in future tax, transportation, and utility increases, which could adversely affect our business. there is also increased focus, including by investors, customers, and other stakeholders on these and other sustainability matters, including the use of plastic, energy, waste, and worker safety. our reputation could be damaged if we do not (or are perceived not to) act responsibly with respect to sustainability matters, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments. we are exposed to the risk that federal or state legislation may negatively affect our operations. changes in federal or state wage requirements, employee rights, health care, social welfare or entitlement programs, including health insurance, paid leave programs, or other changes in workplace regulation could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, we are regularly involved in litigation, including class actions, that arises in the ordinary course of our business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. we operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which is broader in scope than the fcpa, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. our continued expansion outside the united states, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of fcpa violations in the future. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock. we continue to document, test, and monitor our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. however, we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. failure to fully comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information regarding foreign exchange risk management is included in the financial instruments and risk management note under