risk factors. - ------- ------------ our business is subject to a number of risks. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common stock. the risks set out below are not the only risks we face. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments are possible, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares. we continuously evaluate the retention and disposition of our existing operations and investigate possible acquisitions of new businesses. any future acquisitions or dispositions may result in significant changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities. consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may be affected by factors different from those affecting our financial condition, results of operations and trading price at the present time. future acquisitions and investments may expose us to risks to which we are not currently subject. future acquisitions and investments may expose us to risks such as: o the possibility that future acquisitions and investments may not immediately, if ever, add value to our company; 19 o diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses; and o the possibility that the acquired businesses or investments will generate insufficient profits to offset the increased expenses associated with the acquisitions. our ability to make future acquisitions and investments successfully depends on a range of factors, including our ability to identify and compete with others for potential acquisition targets, the acquisition price, terms and conditions of any completed acquisitions, and the future profitability of any new acquisitions and investments. we are dependent on certain key personnel. we are dependent on the services of ian m. cumming and joseph s. steinberg, our chairman of the board and president, respectively. messrs. cumming's and steinberg's employment agreements with us expire june 30, 2015. these individuals are also significant shareholders of our company. as of february 15, 2007, messrs. cumming and steinberg and their respective families (excluding certain private charitable foundations) beneficially owned approximately 11.6% and 12.8% of our outstanding common shares, respectively. accordingly, messrs. cumming and steinberg exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election or removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. we operate in a variety of industries and market sectors, certain of which may be more susceptible to economic downturns than others. the industries in which we operate may be subject to the effects of national or local economic cycles, increased competition and changes in demographic conditions, any of which may adversely affect our businesses and are beyond our control. changes in economic conditions in the u.s. or internationally can cause fluctuation in prices and sales volumes which could adversely affect the company's operating results. a worsening of general economic or market conditions may result in lower valuations for our businesses or investments or have a negative impact on the credit quality of our assets. declines in the u.s. housing market could reduce revenues and profitability of the manufacturing businesses. revenues at our manufacturing segments benefit from strong new housing starts and the strong home improvement market in the u.s. declines in the u.s. housing market, resulting from local, regional, national or international economic changes, or from other factors, including increases in mortgage interest rate levels, have negatively impacted the revenues and profits of our manufacturing businesses, which could continue. we are subject to risks associated with increased volatility in raw material prices and availability of key raw materials. idaho timber and conwed plastics purchase significant amounts of raw materials from third parties for use in their operations. the price for polypropylene, the principal raw material used by conwed plastics, tends to fluctuate with the price of oil and as a result has risen significantly over the past couple of years. to the extent this trend continues and we are unable to pass these price increases to our customers, our results of operations will be negatively impacted. a significant portion of idaho timber's raw material purchases are from foreign suppliers, and the availability of that supply can be adversely impacted by trade disputes, or by the imposition of export tariffs on canadian imports resulting from the softwood lumber agreement between canada and the u.s. in addition, raw material prices at idaho timber will not always rise and fall in proportion to selling prices of idaho timber's products, which can have a negative impact on operating results. from time to time we are subject to litigation, for which we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the company and its subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary, routine litigation incidental to their business or not material to the company's consolidated financial position or liquidity. however, adverse determinations in specific legal matters could have a material impact on the company's financial statements. see "item 3, legal proceedings" for additional information. 20 premier is located in a geographic area subject to catastrophic storms, and it may not be able to purchase sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable price. subsequent to hurricane katrina, the availability of catastrophic insurance coverage was reduced and premiums increased significantly. if premier is unable to purchase insurance coverage for catastrophic losses, the company could suffer a material loss from a hurricane. premier, as a debtor-in-possession, must obtain bankruptcy court approval for the conduct of its business and may not be successful in obtaining approval for its plan of reorganization or in obtaining the necessary funds to rebuild the hard rock biloxi. if the bankruptcy court does not approve premier's plan of reorganization, or otherwise provide premier with access to insurance proceeds currently under the control of premier's pre-petition bondholders in a timely manner, premier will not be able to repair and rebuild the hard rock biloxi or carry out its business plan in a timely manner, which would result in losses for the company. premier could encounter problems during reconstruction that could substantially increase the construction costs or delay the opening of the hard rock biloxi. reconstruction projects like the hard rock biloxi are subject to significant development and construction risks, which can cause unanticipated cost increases and delays. these include, among others, shortages of materials and skilled labor; adverse weather which damages the project or causes delays; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, including alcoholic beverage licensing and gaming commission approval; changes in statutes, regulations, policies and agency interpretations of laws applicable to gaming projects; changes to the plans or specifications for premier's rebuilding efforts; engineering problems; labor disputes and work stoppages; environmental issues; fire, flooding and other natural disasters; and geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems. premier has no operating history or history of earnings and does not have any experience developing or operating a gaming facility. following reconstruction, the hard rock biloxi will be a new business and, accordingly, will be subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. if premier is unable to manage these risks successfully, or fail to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors to the hard rock biloxi, it would negatively impact its operations. the right to operate the hard rock biloxi is contingent upon governmental approval. a revocation, suspension, limit or condition of premier's gaming licenses or registrations would result in a material adverse effect on its business. if premier's gaming licenses and/or registrations are revoked for any reason, the mississippi gaming commission could require us to close the hard rock biloxi. failure to maintain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of reconstruction or opening of the hard rock biloxi, or otherwise affect the design and features of the operation of the hard rock biloxi, all of which could materially and adversely affect financial position and results of operations. delays in obtaining governmental authorizations could adversely affect the profitability of our real estate development projects. our real estate development business requires numerous governmental approvals, licenses and permits, which we must obtain before we can begin development and construction. this approval process can be delayed by withdrawals or modifications of preliminary approvals, by litigation and appeals challenging development rights and by changes in prevailing local circumstances or applicable laws that may require additional approvals. adverse regulatory changes or failure to obtain approvals could delay real estate development projects or make them more costly to complete. changes in mortgage interest rate levels or changes in consumer lending practices could reduce consumer affordability and demand for some of our real estate development projects. certain of our real estate development projects are dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential homebuyers. any significant increase in the prevailing low mortgage interest rate environment or decrease in available credit could reduce consumer demand for housing, which in turn could lead to fewer home sales or lower selling prices. the company's current and future investment in sangart is subject to certain regulatory risks and costs, as well as risks associated with the operation of a new business without a proven track record. sangart's clinical trials are expensive and time consuming, and sangart cannot be certain that the results of its trials will be acceptable to the regulatory authorities or that they won't be required to conduct new or expanded trials. sangart's activities are subject to extensive government regulation and sangart cannot generate any revenue without regulatory approval of its products. even if regulatory approvals are received, sangart would be a new business and will be subject to all of the risks inherent in establishing a new business, in addition to the risks associated with establishing the appropriate infrastructure necessary to operate and manage the commercial exploitation of sangart's products. sangart's hemospan product is subject to competition from other products under development. there are other companies developing products for the same market that sangart is targeting, and if they are successful in bringing their product to market before sangart it may significantly impair sangart's ability to compete in the same market segment. 21 sangart's success depends on its ability to obtain, maintain and defend patent protection for its products and technologies, preserve trade secrets and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies, such as sangart, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. if sangart's intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if sangart fails to maintain its third-party intellectual property licenses in good standing, its ability to successfully bring hemospan to market would be adversely affected. there can be no guarantee that any of sangart's pending patent applications will result in issued patents, or that any patents issued to sangart or its licensors will not be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties. if sangart loses challenges to its intellectual property it could incur monetary liabilities, be required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology (if available) or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. a decrease in consumer spending or general increases in the cost of living could adversely impact sales at our wineries. our wineries primarily produce and sell wines in the luxury segment of the premium table wine market, and are significantly dependent on the level of consumer spending. consumer spending habits are influenced by a number of factors beyond our control, including the general state of the economy, increases in the cost of living, federal and state income tax rates, deductibility of business entertainment expenses under federal and state law and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. we could experience significant increases in operating costs due to competition for qualified personnel in our operating businesses. our inability to attract and retain skilled personnel would make it difficult to compete and operate efficiently. many of our operating businesses require skilled management and staff employees; we compete for their services with other companies. our various businesses are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. additionally, we rely on our information systems in managing our accounting and financial reporting. hardware and software is protected by various forms and levels of security, and certain of our information technology functions have backup processing capabilities. however, these systems are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. in the event that critical information systems are unavailable, it could temporarily impair our operations or our ability to maintain our accounting and financial reporting effectively. we face intense competition in the operation of our businesses. the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. there are numerous competitors who operate in our markets, many of which have advantages over us, such as more favorable locations, greater financial and other resources and may be more established in their respective communities than we are. competitors may offer newer or different products or services that our customers may find more attractive. we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize our deferred tax asset. we and certain of our subsidiaries have significant net operating loss carryforwards ("nols") and other tax attributes. at december 31, 2006, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of $991,900,000 in respect of these tax attributes. if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the deferred tax asset. weather related conditions and significant natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes and hailstorms could adversely affect our business. the occurrence of natural disasters may impact our wineries, real estate holdings, manufacturing and gaming operations, interfere with our ability to obtain raw materials, sell our products and provide service or realize income from our operations. any shortage of reliable water and energy resources or a drop in consumer confidence in the dependability of such resources in areas where we operate or own land may adversely affect our business operations, the values of our properties and/or result in government restrictions that curtail operations. 22 we may not be able to insure certain risks economically. we may experience economic harm if any damage to our properties is not covered by insurance. we cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be financially viable if we make a claim. we may suffer losses that are not covered under our insurance or reinsurance policies. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, results of operations could be adversely affected. we may reduce or cease to pay dividends on our common shares. on a split adjusted basis, we paid cash dividends of $0.25 per common share in 2006 and $.125 per common share in 2005 and 2004. however, we cannot assure you that we will pay dividends on our common shares in the future or, if we do, the amount of such dividends. the payment of dividends on our common shares in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon general business conditions, the availability of our nols, legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that our board of directors may deem to be relevant. in connection with the declaration of dividends or the making of distributions on, or the purchase, redemption or other acquisition of our common shares, we are required to comply with certain restrictions contained in certain of our debt instruments. our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions. we and certain of our subsidiaries have significant nols and other tax attributes, the amount and availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and uncertainties. in order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from acquiring additional common shares. the restriction will remain until the earliest of (a) december 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of section 382 of the internal revenue code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of our taxable year to which these tax attributes may no longer be carried forward. the restriction may be waived by our board of directors. shareholders are advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our common shares approaches the proscribed level. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. - -------- ----------------------------------------------------------- the following includes "forward-looking statements" that involve risk and uncertainties. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. the company's market risk arises principally from interest rate risk related to its investment portfolio and its borrowing activities and equity price risk. the company's investment portfolio is primarily classified as available for sale, and consequently, is recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in shareholders' equity. included in the company's available for sale investment portfolio are fixed income securities, which comprised approximately 57% of the company's total investment portfolio at december 31, 2006. these fixed income securities are primarily rated "investment grade" or are u.s. governmental agency issued or u.s. government-sponsored enterprises. the estimated weighted average remaining life of these fixed income securities was approximately 2.5 years at december 31, 2006. the company's fixed income securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. at december 31, 2005, fixed income securities comprised approximately 69% of the company's total investment portfolio and had an estimated weighted average remaining life of 1.2 years. also included in the company's available for sale investment portfolio are equity securities, which are recorded on the balance sheet at an aggregate fair value of $736,700,000 (aggregate cost of $584,400,000), and which comprised approximately 31% of the company's total investment portfolio at december 31, 2006. the majority of this amount consists of two publicly traded securities, the largest of which is the investment in fortescue common shares, which is carried at fair value of $276,300,000. in addition, the company's investment portfolio includes its investment in inmet, which is carried at cost of $78,000,000 at december 31, 2006. although the company is restricted from selling the inmet common shares, the investment is subject to price risk. the market value of this investment is $299,800,000 at december 31, 2006. as discussed more fully above in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company evaluates its investments for impairment on a quarterly basis. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, the company's portfolio of trading securities was not material to the total investment portfolio. the company is subject to interest rate risk on its long-term fixed interest rate debt. generally, the fair market value of debt securities with a fixed interest rate will increase as interest rates fall, and the fair market value will decrease as interest rates rise. the following table provides information about the company's financial instruments used for purposes other than trading that are primarily sensitive to changes in interest rates. for investment securities and debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates. for the variable rate borrowings, the weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. for securities and liabilities with contractual maturities, the table presents contractual principal cash flows adjusted for the company's historical experience and prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. 44 for additional information, see notes 6, 12 and 21 of notes to consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date ---------------------- 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---------- ----- ---------- (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive assets: available for sale fixed income securities: u.s. government and agencies $ 452,593 $ 22,302 $ 7,104 $ 5,107 $ 3,686 $ 9,775 $ 500,567 $ 500,567 weighted average interest rate 4.07% 5.27% 5.76% 5.77% 5.77% 5.79% u.s. government- sponsored enterprises $ 268,834 $ 77,565 $ 45,136 $ 34,011 $ 25,695 $ 74,661 $ 525,902 $ 525,902 weighted average interest rate 4.89% 6.05% 6.37% 6.39% 6.40% 6.39% other fixed maturities: rated investment grade $ 84,394 $ 1,593 $ 690 $ -- $ 5,926 $ 24,388 $ 116,991 $ 116,991 weighted average interest rate 5.51% 4.90% 4.03% -- 0.66% 2.89% rated less than investment grade/not rated $ 86,148 $ 28,518 $ 29,399 $ 20,223 $ 9,608 $ 39,097 $ 212,993 $ 212,993 weighted average interest rate 9.20% 8.16% 9.52% 9.27% 8.79% 3.32% rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate borrowings $ 182,701 $ 3,524 $ 878 $ 978 $ 1,054 $ 928,991 $1,118,126 $1,279,649 weighted average interest rate 5.34% 2.66% 11.96% 12.01% 12.15% 6.05% variable interest rate borrowings $ 2,114 $ 2,114 $ 2,114 $ 2,114 $ 32,879 $ -- $ 41,335 $ 41,335 weighted average interest rate 8.95% 8.84% 8.94% 9.06% 9.10% -- rate sensitive derivative financial instruments: euro currency swap $ 2,085 $ 2,085 $ 2,085 $ 522 $ -- $ -- $ 6,777 $ (2,430) average pay rate 5.89% 5.89% 5.89% 5.89% -- -- average receive rate 7.60% 7.60% 7.60% 7.60% -- -- pay fixed/receive variable interest rate swap $ 2,114 $ 2,114 $ 2,114 $ 2,114 $ 32,879 $ -- $ 41,335 $ (268) average pay rate 5.01% 5.01% 5.01% 5.01% 5.01% -- average receive rate 4.95% 4.84% 4.94% 5.06% 5.10% -- off-balance sheet items: unused lines of credit $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 100,000 $ -- $ 100,000 $ 100,000 weighted average interest rate 5.95% 5.84% 5.94% 6.06% 6.10% -- 45risk factors. - ------- ------------ our business is subject to a number of risks. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common stock. the risks set out below are not the only risks we face. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments are possible, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares. any future acquisitions or dispositions may result in significant changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities. consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may be affected by factors different from those affecting our financial condition, results of operations and trading price at the present time. we are dependent on certain key personnel. we are dependent on the services of ian m. cumming and joseph s. steinberg, our chairman of the board and president, respectively. messrs. cumming's and steinberg's employment agreements with us expire june 30, 2015. these individuals are also significant shareholders of our company. as of february 14, 2008, messrs. cumming and steinberg and trusts for the benefit of their respective families (excluding certain private charitable foundations) beneficially owned approximately 11.3% and 12.5% of our outstanding common shares, respectively. accordingly, messrs. cumming and steinberg exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election or removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. we operate in a variety of industries and market sectors, all of which are very competitive and susceptible to economic downturns and would be adversely affected by a recession. a worsening of general economic or market conditions may result in lower valuations for our businesses or investments or have a negative impact on the credit quality of our assets. declines in the u.s. housing market have reduced revenues and profitability of the manufacturing businesses and may continue to do so. our manufacturing operations are subject to risks associated with increased volatility in raw material prices and availability of key raw materials. if the price for our raw materials continues to increase and we are not able to pass these price increases to our customers, or we are unable to obtain key raw materials, our results of operations will be negatively impacted. sti prepaid may not be able to obtain sufficient or cost-effective termination capacity to particular destinations. this could result in an inability to fulfill customer demands or in higher costs, which could adversely affect revenues and margins. pricing on sti prepaid's prepaid phone card business is highly sensitive to price declines and subject to intense competition. we believe in some instances our competitors offer or appear to offer rates to consumers that are below their cost in order to gain market share. this type of pricing by one or more of our competitors can adversely affect our revenues and profits. sti prepaid relies on independent distributors to generate revenues, who may not devote sufficient efforts to promote and sell our products rather than the products of our competitors. the hard rock biloxi is a new business with no operating history, and premier does not have any experience operating a gaming facility. if premier is unable to manage the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, it would negatively impact operating results. increases in mortgage interest rate levels or decreases in available consumer credit could reduce consumer demand for certain of our real estate development projects. the company's current and future investment in sangart is subject to certain regulatory risks and costs, as well as risks associated with the operation of a new business without a proven track record. sangart's activities are subject to extensive government regulation and sangart cannot generate any revenue without regulatory approval of its products. sangart is also subject to all of the risks inherent in establishing a new business. 22 sangart's hemospan product is subject to competition from other products under development. there are other companies developing products for the same market that sangart is targeting, and if they are successful in bringing their product to market before sangart it may significantly impair sangart's ability to compete in the same market segment. sangart's success depends on its ability to obtain, maintain and defend patent protection for its products and technologies, preserve trade secrets and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies, such as sangart, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. if sangart's intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if sangart fails to maintain its third-party intellectual property licenses in good standing, its ability to successfully bring hemospan to market would be adversely affected, it could incur monetary liabilities or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. goober drilling's revenues and profitability are impacted by natural gas supplies and prices and the supply of drilling rigs in the marketplace. during periods of decreased demand for natural gas, goober drilling's rig utilization will decline and its competitors may also have excess capacity in the marketplace, which would adversely impact goober drilling's revenues and profitability. the company has a substantial investment in acf, a company that makes automobile loans to sub-prime and other borrowers. if acf's loan losses increase or its ability to make new loans and grow its business is impaired, its revenues and profits would decline, adversely affecting the value of the company's investment. the company has substantial investments in fortescue, inmet and clc, entities which are engaged in the mining of base metals (principally iron ore and copper), the prices of which have recently been at record levels. if these prices decline or delays occur in bringing the mines into production, the value of the company's investments would decline. we could experience significant increases in operating costs and reduced profitability due to competition for skilled management and staff employees in our operating businesses. from time to time we are subject to litigation, for which we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the company and its subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary, routine litigation incidental to their business or not material to the company's consolidated financial position or liquidity. however, adverse determinations in specific legal matters could have a material adverse impact on the company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize our deferred tax asset. at december 31, 2007, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of $1,138,100,000. if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the deferred tax asset. we may not be able to insure certain risks economically. we cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be financially viable if we make a claim. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, results of operations could be adversely affected. we may reduce or cease to pay dividends on our common shares. on a split adjusted basis, we paid cash dividends of $0.25 per common share in 2007 and 2006 and $0.125 per common share in 2005. however, we cannot assure you that we will pay dividends on our common shares in the future or, if we do, the amount of such dividends. the payment of dividends on our common shares in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon general business conditions, the availability of our nols, legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that our board of directors may deem to be relevant. in connection with the declaration of dividends or the making of distributions on, or the purchase, redemption or other acquisition of our common shares, we are required to comply with certain restrictions contained in certain of our debt instruments. 23 our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions. we and certain of our subsidiaries have significant nols and other tax attributes, the amount and availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and uncertainties. in order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from acquiring additional common shares. the restriction will remain until the earliest of (a) december 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of section 382 of the internal revenue code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of our taxable year to which these tax attributes may no longer be carried forward. the restriction may be waived by our board of directors. shareholders are advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our common shares approaches the proscribed level. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. - -------- ----------------------------------------------------------- the following includes "forward-looking statements" that involve risk and uncertainties. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. the company's market risk arises principally from interest rate risk related to its investment portfolio and its borrowing activities and equity price risk. the company's investment portfolio is primarily classified as available for sale, and consequently, is recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in shareholders' equity. included in the company's available for sale investment portfolio are fixed income securities, which comprised approximately 35% of the company's total investment portfolio at december 31, 2007. these fixed income securities are primarily rated "investment grade" or are u.s. governmental agency issued or u.s. government-sponsored enterprises. the estimated weighted average remaining life of these fixed income securities was approximately 2.4 years at december 31, 2007. the company's fixed income securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. at december 31, 2006, fixed income securities comprised approximately 57% of the company's total investment portfolio and had an estimated weighted average remaining life of 2.5 years. also included in the company's available for sale investment portfolio are equity securities, which are recorded on the balance sheet at an aggregate fair value of $2,198,500,000 (aggregate cost of $533,000,000), and which comprised approximately 58% of the company's total investment portfolio at december 31, 2007. the majority of this amount consists of two publicly traded securities, the largest of which is the investment in fortescue common shares, which is carried at fair value of $1,824,700,000. in addition, the company's investment portfolio includes its investment in acf, which is carried at fair value of $71,500,000 at december 31, 2007. the company's investment portfolio also includes its investment in inmet, which is carried at cost of $78,000,000 at december 31, 2007. although the company is currently restricted from selling the inmet common shares, the investment is subject to price risk. the market value of this investment is $451,800,000 at december 31, 2007. as discussed more fully above in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company evaluates its investments for impairment on a quarterly basis. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company's portfolio of trading securities was not material to the total investment portfolio. the company is subject to interest rate risk on its long-term fixed interest rate debt. generally, the fair market value of debt securities with a fixed interest rate will increase as interest rates fall, and the fair market value will decrease as interest rates rise. the following table provides information about the company's financial instruments used for purposes other than trading that are primarily sensitive to changes in interest rates. for investment securities and debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates. for the variable rate borrowings, the weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. for securities and liabilities with contractual maturities, the table presents contractual principal cash flows adjusted for the company's historical experience and prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. 47 for additional information, see notes 6, 12 and 21 of notes to consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date ---------------------- 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---------- ----- ---------- (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive assets: available for sale fixed income securities: u.s. government and agencies $ 747,305 $ 24,522 $ 4,761 $ 3,393 $ 2,456 $ 8,930 $ 791,367 $ 791,367 weighted average interest rate 4.09% 3.90% 5.96% 5.99% 6.01% 6.00% u.s. government- sponsored enterprises $ 217,583 $ 42,383 $ 32,387 $ 25,634 $ 20,796 $ 103,761 $ 442,544 $ 442,544 weighted average interest rate 4.88% 6.71% 6.73% 6.74% 6.74% 6.71% other fixed maturities: rated investment grade $ 1,328 $ 717 $ -- $ 6,567 $ -- $ 22,396 $ 31,008 $ 31,008 weighted average interest rate 1.22% 4.13% -- .81% -- 2.99% rated less than investment grade/not rated $ 1,064 $ 6,639 $ 1,619 $ 3,178 $ 1,847 $ 39,945 $ 54,292 $ 54,292 weighted average interest rate 7.63% 10.57% 8.25% 8.50% 9.00% 11.56% rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate borrowings $ 130,291 $ 5,370 $ 12,161 $ 1,059 $ 1,174 $1,919,483 $ 2,069,538 $ 2,464,944 weighted average interest rate 5.23% 8.30% 7.87% 12.18% 12.20% 6.87% variable interest rate borrowings $ 2,114 $ 29,905 $ 2,114 $ 32,879 $ -- $ -- $ 67,012 $ 67,012 weighted average interest rate 6.60% 6.74% 8.28% 8.39% -- -- rate sensitive derivative financial instruments: euro currency swap $ 2,085 $ 2,085 $ 522 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 4,692 $ (2,862) average pay rate 5.89% 5.89% 5.89% -- -- -- average receive rate 7.60% 7.60% 7.60% -- -- -- pay fixed/receive variable interest rate swap $ 2,114 $ 29,905 $ 2,114 $ 32,879 $ -- $ -- $ 67,012 $ (5,380) average pay rate 5.04% 5.04% 5.01% 5.01% -- -- average receive rate 3.64% 3.50% 4.28% 4.39% -- -- off-balance sheet items: unused lines of credit $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 100,000 $ -- $ -- $ 100,000 $ 100,000 weighted average interest rate 4.51% 4.79% 5.15% 5.28% -- -- 48risk factors. - ------- ------------ our business is subject to a number of risks. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common stock. the risks set out below are not the only risks we face. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments are possible, changing the components of our assets and liabilities, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares. we are dependent on certain key personnel. we are dependent on the services of ian m. cumming and joseph s. steinberg, our chairman of the board and president, respectively. messrs. cumming's and steinberg's employment agreements with us expire june 30, 2015. these individuals are also significant shareholders of our company. as of february 20, 2009, messrs. cumming and steinberg and trusts for the benefit of their respective families (excluding certain private charitable foundations) beneficially owned approximately 10.6% and 11.7% of our outstanding common shares, respectively. accordingly, messrs. cumming and steinberg exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election or removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. 24 we operate in a variety of industries and market sectors, all of which are very competitive and susceptible to economic downturns and are adversely affected by the current recession. a worsening of general economic or market conditions may result in lower valuations for our businesses or investments. declines in the u.s. housing market have reduced revenues and profitability of the manufacturing businesses and may continue to do so. the prices and availability of key raw materials affects the profitability of our manufacturing operations, and also impacts sangart's ability to conduct its clinical trials. pricing on sti prepaid's prepaid phone card business is highly sensitive to price declines and subject to intense competition. we believe in some instances our competitors offer or appear to offer rates to consumers that are below their cost in order to gain market share. this type of pricing by one or more of our competitors can adversely affect our revenues and profits. sti prepaid relies on independent distributors to generate revenues, who may not devote sufficient efforts to promote and sell our products rather than the products of our competitors. the hard rock biloxi is in the early stages of operations relative to its competitors and has yet to produce significant operating income. if premier is unable to manage the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, it would negatively impact operating results, which could result in impairment charges if the net book value of premier's property and equipment is deemed unrecoverable. the hard rock biloxi is dependent upon patronage of persons living in the gulf coast region. downturns in local and regional economic conditions, an increase in competition in the surrounding area and interruptions caused by hurricanes could negatively impact operating results. increases in mortgage interest rate levels or the lack of available consumer credit could reduce consumer demand for certain of our real estate development projects. sangart is subject to extensive government regulation, cannot generate any revenue without regulatory approval of its products and is also subject to all of the risks inherent in establishing a new business. there are other companies developing products for the same market that sangart is targeting, and if they are successful in bringing their product to market before sangart it may significantly impair sangart's ability to compete in the same market segment. sangart's success depends on its ability to obtain, maintain and defend patent protection for its products and technologies, preserve trade secrets and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies, such as sangart, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. if sangart's intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if sangart fails to maintain its third-party intellectual property licenses in good standing, its ability to successfully bring hemospan to market would be adversely affected, it could incur monetary liabilities or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. goober drilling's revenues and profitability are impacted by natural gas supplies and prices and the supply of drilling rigs in the marketplace. during periods of decreased demand for natural gas, goober drilling's rig utilization will decline and its competitors may also have excess capacity in the marketplace, which would adversely impact goober drilling's revenues and profitability. the lack of liquidity in the capital markets has and could continue to adversely affect exploration, production and development activities of goober drilling's customers, which causes a reduction in rig utilization and profitability. the combination of low oil and natural gas prices and the lack of liquidity in the capital markets have forced goober drilling customers to reduce drilling programs and may impair their ability to sustain their current level of operations and meet their cash obligations. in addition to reduced rig utilization and profitability, which could result in impairment charges for certain rigs, the difficulties being experienced by goober drilling's customers could increase goober drilling's bad debt expense. 25 the company has a substantial investment in jefferies, an investment banking and securities firm whose operating results are greatly affected by the economy and financial markets. turmoil in the equity and credit markets has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the volume and size of transactions jefferies executes for its customers, resulting in reduced revenues and profitability in its investment banking, asset management and trading activities, as well as losses in its principal trading activities. declines in jefferies operating results could adversely affect the value of the company's investment. the company has a substantial investment in acf, a company that purchases automobile loans made to sub-prime and other borrowers, whose operating results are greatly affected by the economy and financial markets. if acf's loan losses increase as its borrowers experience economic hardships, or if its ability to acquire new loans and grow its business is impaired, particularly due to the turmoil in the credit markets that acf needs to access to fund its operating activities, its revenues and profits would decline, adversely affecting the value of the company's investment. subsequent to december 31, 2008, acf failed to maintain a financial covenant in one of its credit facilities and has been granted a waiver through march 7, 2009. acf is currently negotiating with its credit providers to amend its facility; however, if acf is unsuccessful the value of the company's investment could decline significantly. the company has substantial investments in fortescue, inmet and clc, entities which are engaged in the mining of base metals (principally iron ore and copper), the prices of which have declined during 2008 reducing the value of the company's investments. if these prices decline further or delays occur in bringing the mines into production, the value of the company's investments could decline. the value of the investments in the company's defined benefit pension plan portfolio has declined significantly, and if the values do not recover or decline further, the company's unfunded defined pension plan liability could increase significantly. we could experience significant increases in operating costs and reduced profitability due to competition for skilled management and staff employees in our operating businesses. from time to time we are subject to litigation, which if adversely determined may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we have large investments in unconsolidated public companies, including fortescue, inmet, jefferies and acf, each of which is subject to litigation from time to time, and if such litigation results in material losses the value of our investments may decline. we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our nols. at december 31, 2008, the company has recorded a valuation allowance against substantially all of the net deferred tax asset due to the uncertainty about its ability to generate future taxable income to utilize that asset. we may not be able to insure certain risks economically. we cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be financially viable if we make a claim. if an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, results of operations could be adversely affected. we did not pay dividends on our common shares in 2008 and the payment of dividends in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors. our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions. we and certain of our subsidiaries have significant nols and other tax attributes, the amount and availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and uncertainties. in order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from acquiring additional common shares. the restriction will remain until the earliest of (a) december 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of section 382 of the internal revenue code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of our taxable year to which these tax attributes may no longer be carried forward. the restriction may be waived by our board of directors. shareholders are advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our common shares approaches the proscribed level. 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. - -------- ----------------------------------------------------------- the following includes "forward-looking statements" that involve risk and uncertainties. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. the company's market risk arises principally from interest rate risk related to its investment portfolio and its borrowing activities and equity price risk. the company's investment portfolio is primarily classified as available for sale, and consequently, is recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in shareholders' equity. included in the company's available for sale investment portfolio are fixed income securities, which comprised approximately 47% of the company's total investment portfolio at december 31, 2008. these fixed income securities are primarily rated "investment grade" or are u.s. governmental agency issued or u.s. government-sponsored enterprises. the estimated weighted average remaining life of these fixed income securities was approximately 1.6 years at december 31, 2008. the company's fixed income securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. at december 31, 2007, fixed income securities comprised approximately 34% of the company's total investment portfolio and had an estimated weighted average remaining life of 1.7 years. also included in the company's available for sale investment portfolio are equity securities, which are recorded on the balance sheet at an aggregate fair value of $561,400,000 (aggregate cost of $422,000,000) and which comprised approximately 40% of the company's total investment portfolio at december 31, 2008. the majority of this amount consists of two publicly traded securities, including the investment in fortescue common shares, which is carried at fair value of $377,000,000, and the investment in inmet, which is carried at fair value of $90,000,000. although the company is currently restricted from selling the inmet common shares, the investment is subject to price risk. as discussed more fully above in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the company evaluates its investments for impairment on a quarterly basis. the company is also subject to price risk related to its investments in acf and jefferies, for which it has elected the fair value option. at december 31, 2008, these investments are classified as investments in associated companies and carried at fair values of $249,900,000 and $683,100,000, respectively. at december 31, 2008 and 2007, the company's portfolio of trading securities was not material to the total investment portfolio. the company is subject to interest rate risk on its long-term fixed interest rate debt. generally, the fair market value of debt securities with a fixed interest rate will increase as interest rates fall, and the fair market value will decrease as interest rates rise. the following table provides information about the company's financial instruments used for purposes other than trading that are primarily sensitive to changes in interest rates. for investment securities and debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates. for the variable rate borrowings, the weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. for securities and liabilities with contractual maturities, the table presents contractual principal cash flows adjusted for the company's historical experience and prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. 52 for additional information, see notes 6, 13 and 22 of notes to consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date ---------------------- 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---------- ----- ---------- (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive assets: available for sale fixed income securities: u.s. government and agencies $256,431 $ 2,165 $ 1,480 $ 1,074 $ 810 $ 2,305 $ 264,265 $ 264,265 weighted average interest rate 1.91% 4.72% 4.71% 4.69% 4.69% 4.68% u.s. government- sponsored enterprises $154,103 $ 52,969 $ 39,649 $ 29,327 $ 21,781 $ 56,235 $ 354,064 $ 354,064 weighted average interest rate 3.34% 5.17% 5.15% 5.14% 5.13% 5.13% other fixed maturities: rated investment grade $ 20,254 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 1,078 $ 21,332 $ 21,332 weighted average interest rate 3.04% -- -- -- -- .96% rated less than investment grade/not rated $ 17,235 $ -- $ 124 $ -- $ 550 $ 2,749 $ 20,658 $ 20,658 weighted average interest rate 8.97% -- 8.50% -- 10.00% 4.50% rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate borrowings $151,789 $ 113 $ 27 $ -- $475,000 $1,319,310 $1,946,239 $1,566,327 weighted average interest rate 2.28% 10.16% 10.78% -- 7.07% 7.05% variable interest rate borrowings $ 96,924 $ 12,423 $ 32,909 $ 25 $ -- $ -- $ 142,281 $ 142,281 weighted average interest rate 3.54% 5.40% 6.25% 4.80% -- -- rate sensitive derivative financial instruments: euro currency swap $ 2,085 $ 522 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 2,607 $ (1,424) average pay rate 5.89% 5.89% -- -- -- -- average receive rate 7.60% 7.60% -- -- -- -- pay fixed/receive variable interest rate swap $ 2,114 $115,923 $ 32,879 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 150,916 $ (11,708) average pay rate 5.06% 5.06% 5.01% -- -- -- average receive rate 1.39% 1.98% 2.25% -- -- -- off-balance sheet items: unused lines of credit $ -- $ -- $100,000 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 100,000 $ 100,000 weighted average interest rate 2.26% 2.89% 3.12% -- -- -- 53quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . the following includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. the discussion of risk is presented separately for jefferies and the balance of our company. exclusive of jefferies, our market risk arises principally from interest rate risk related to our financial instruments owned and equity price risk. as more fully discussed elsewhere in this report, we own approximately 46.6 million common shares of hrg, representing approximately 23% of hrg's outstanding common shares, which are accounted for under the fair value option and included within trading assets at fair value of $631.9 million at december 31, 2015 . assuming a decline of 10% in market prices, the value of our investment in hrg could decrease by approximately $63 million. in addition, as more fully discussed elsewhere in this report, we have an investment in fxcm consisting of a $300 million two-year senior secured term loan with rights to a variable proportion of certain distributions in connection with an fxcm sale of assets or certain other events, and our right to require a sale of fxcm beginning in january 2018. we are accounting for this investment, which is included within trading assets, at fair value of $625.7 million at december 31, 2015 . our market risk with respect to our investment in fxcm primarily affects the value of our rights, particularly relating to fxcm's underlying common stock price, its volatility and the time to liquidity event. assuming a decline of $1.00 (representing approximately 6% of the price at december 31, 2015 ) in fxcm's market price, as of december 31, 2015 , the value of our fxcm rights would decrease by approximately $15 million , assuming no change in any other factors. likewise, assuming an increase in the observed volatility of fxcm by 10% , the value of our fxcm rights would decrease by approximately $18 million , assuming no other change in any other factors. a three month change in the estimated time to liquidity event would result in a change of about $8 million in this valuation, assuming no change in any other factors. changes to the key inputs with respect to our loan did not have a significant impact on the risk of loss. the potential for changes in the value of financial instruments is referred to as market risk. jefferies market risk generally represents the risk of loss that may result from a change in the value of a financial instrument as a result of fluctuations in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, along with the level of volatility. interest rate risks result primarily from exposure to changes in the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates, and credit spreads. equity price risks result from exposure to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices. commodity price risks result from exposure to the changes in prices and volatilities of individual commodities, commodity baskets and commodity indices. market risk arises from market making, proprietary trading, underwriting, specialist and investing activities. jefferies seeks to manage its exposure to market risk by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes, and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. due to imperfections in correlations, gains and losses can occur even for positions that are hedged. position limits in trading and inventory accounts are established and monitored on an ongoing basis. each day, consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to various levels of management, which enable management to monitor inventory levels and results of the trading groups. value-at-risk within jefferies, value-at-risk (var) is used as a measurement of market risk using a model that simulates revenue and loss distributions on substantially all financial instruments by applying historical market changes to the current portfolio. using the results of this simulation, var measures the potential loss in value of our financial instruments over a specified time horizon at a given confidence level. jefferies calculates a one-day var using a one year look-back period measured at a 95% confidence level. as with all measures of var, the estimate has inherent limitations due to the assumption that historical changes in market conditions are representative of the future. furthermore, the var model measures the risk of a current static position over a one-day horizon 61 and might not capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges in a one-day period. published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. while jefferies believes the assumptions and inputs in its risk model are reasonable, jefferies could incur losses greater than the reported var because the historical market prices and rates changes may not be an accurate measure of future market events and conditions. consequently, this var estimate is only one of a number of tools jefferies uses in its daily risk management activities. when comparing the var numbers to those of other firms, it is important to remember that different methodologies and assumptions could produce significantly different results. the following table illustrates each separate component of var for each component of market risk by interest rate, equity, currency and commodity products, as well as for jefferies overall trading positions using the past 365 days of historical data. the aggregated var presented here is less than the sum of the individual components (i.e., interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk, equity risk and commodity price risk) due to the benefit of diversification among the four risk categories. diversification effect equals the difference between aggregated var and the sum of vars for the four risk categories and arises because the market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. since we consolidate jefferies on a one month lag, all amounts reported are for jefferies annual fiscal periods. daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios (in millions) risk categories var at november 30, 2015 daily var for the year ended november 30, 2015 var at november 30, 2014 daily var for the year ended november 30, 2014 average high low average high low interest rates $ 5.01 $ 5.84 $ 8.06 $ 4.19 $ 5.56 $ 5.77 $ 8.69 $ 3.16 equity prices 6.69 9.79 13.61 5.39 10.53 11.08 14.68 7.85 currency rates 0.30 0.46 3.32 0.12 0.87 1.33 6.59 0.15 commodity prices 0.82 0.57 1.62 0.04 0.19 0.70 2.14 0.07 diversification effect (2) (5.09 ) (4.27 ) n/a n/a (3.87 ) (4.53 ) n/a n/a firmwide $ 7.73 $ 12.39 $ 17.75 $ 6.35 $ 13.28 $ 14.35 $ 19.68 $ 10.31 (1) var is the potential loss in value of jefferies trading positions due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specific confidence level. for the var numbers reported above, a one-day time horizon, with a one year look-back period, and a 95% confidence level were used. (2) the diversification effect is not applicable for the maximum and minimum var values as the jefferies var and var values for the four risk categories might have occurred on different days during the period. average daily var decreased to $12.39 million for the year ended november 30, 2015 from $14.35 million for the year ended november 30, 2014, a 13.7% decrease. the decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in jefferies' investment in kcg and the exit of the bache business. in addition, var declined from $13.28 million at november 30, 2014 to $7.73 million at november 30, 2015. the decrease is reflective of a reduction in risk that jefferies implemented in connection with its view of the current market environment. the reduction in jefferies' balance sheet and mix of inventory was substantially effected during its fourth quarter. excluding the investment in kcg, average var increased to $9.97 million for the year ended november 30, 2015 from $9.54 million in the year ended november 30, 2014. the primary method used to test the efficacy of the var model is to compare actual daily net revenue for those positions included in the var calculation with the daily var estimate. this evaluation is performed at various levels of the trading portfolio, from the holding company level down to specific business lines. for the var model, trading related revenue is defined as principal transaction revenue, trading related commissions, revenue from securitization activities and net interest income. for a 95% confidence one day var model (i.e., no intra-day trading), assuming current changes in market value are consistent with the historical changes used in the calculation, net trading losses would not be expected to exceed the var estimates more than twelve times on an annual basis (i.e., once in every 20 days). during the year ended november 30, 2015, results of the evaluation at the aggregate level demonstrated five days when the net trading loss exceeded the 95% one day var. 62 certain individual positions within financial instruments are not included in the var model because var is not the most appropriate measure of risk. accordingly, jefferies risk management has additional procedures in place to assure that the level of potential loss that would arise from market movements are within acceptable levels. such procedures include performing stress tests, monitoring concentration risk and tracking price target/stop loss levels. the table below presents the potential reduction in net income associated with a 10% stress of or the sensitivity to a 10% stress of the fair value of the positions that are not included in the var model at november 30, 2015 (in thousands): 10% sensitivity private investments $ 24,889 corporate debt securities in default 7,223 trade claims 1,435 excluding trading losses associated with the daily marking to market of the investment in kcg, there were 55 days with trading losses out of a total of 252 trading days in the year ended november 30, 2015. including these losses, there were 64 days with trading losses. scenario analysis and stress tests while var measures potential losses due to adverse changes in historical market prices and rates, jefferies uses stress testing to analyze the potential impact of specific events or moderate or extreme market moves on its current portfolio both firm wide and within business segments. stress scenarios comprise both historical market price and rate changes and hypothetical market environments, and generally involve simultaneous changes of many risk factors. indicative market changes in jefferies scenarios include, but are not limited to, a large widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equities markets, significant moves in selected emerging markets, large moves in interest rates, changes in the shape of the yield curve and large moves in european markets. in addition, jefferies also performs ad hoc stress tests and adds new scenarios as market conditions dictate. because jefferies stress scenarios are meant to reflect market moves that occur over a period of time, its estimates of potential loss assume some level of position reduction for liquid positions. unlike jefferies var, which measures potential losses within a given confidence interval, stress scenarios do not have an associated implied probability; rather, stress testing is used to estimate the potential loss from market moves that tend to be larger than those embedded in the var calculation. stress testing is performed and reported regularly as part of the risk management process. stress testing is used to assess jefferies aggregate risk position as well as for limit setting and risk/reward analysis. counterparty credit risk and issuer country exposure counterparty credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a counterparty's credit worthiness or its ability or willingness to meet its financial obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions of a financial contract. jefferies is exposed to credit risk as trading counterparty to other broker-dealers and customers, as a direct lender and through extending loan commitments, as a holder of securities and as a member of exchanges and clearing organizations. it is critical to jefferies financial soundness and profitability that jefferies properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage the various credit and counterparty risks inherent in its businesses. credit is extended to counterparties in a controlled manner in order to generate acceptable returns, whether such credit is granted directly or is incidental to a transaction. all extensions of credit are monitored and managed on a jefferies enterprise level in order to limit exposure to loss related to credit risk. jefferies employs a credit risk framework, which is responsible for identifying credit risks throughout its operating businesses, establishing counterparty limits and managing and monitoring those credit limits. jefferies framework includes: defining credit limit guidelines and credit limit approval processes; providing a consistent and integrated credit risk framework across the enterprise; approving counterparties and counterparty limits with parameters set by its risk management committee; negotiating, approving and monitoring credit terms in legal and master documentation; 63 delivering credit limits to all relevant sales and trading desks; maintaining credit reviews for all active and new counterparties; operating a control function for exposure analytics and exception management and reporting; determining the analytical standards and risk parameters for on-going management and monitoring of global credit risk books; actively managing daily exposure, exceptions, and breaches; monitoring daily margin call activity and counterparty performance (in concert with the margin department); and setting the minimum global requirements for systems, reports, and technology. jefferies credit exposures credit exposure exists across a wide-range of products including cash and cash equivalents, loans, securities finance transactions and over-the-counter derivative contracts. loans and lending arise in connection with our capital markets activities and represents the notional value of loans that have been drawn by the borrower and lending commitments outstanding. in addition, credit exposures on forward settling traded loans are included within jefferies loans and lending exposures for consistency with the balance sheet categorization of these items. securities and margin finance includes credit exposure arising on securities financing transactions (reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements) to the extent the fair value of the underlying collateral differs from the contractual agreement amount and from margin provided to customers. derivatives represent over-the-counter ("otc") derivatives, which are reported net by counterparty when a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement. derivatives are accounted for at fair value net of cash collateral received or posted under credit support agreements. in addition, credit exposures on forward settling trades are included within jefferies derivative credit exposures. cash and cash equivalents include both interest-bearing and non-interest bearing deposits at banks. current counterparty credit exposures are summarized in the table below and provided by credit quality, region and industry. credit exposures presented take netting and collateral into consideration by counterparty and master agreement. collateral taken into consideration includes both collateral received as cash as well as collateral received in the form of securities or other arrangements. current exposure is the loss that would be incurred on a particular set of positions in the event of default by the counterparty, assuming no recovery. current exposure equals the fair value of the positions less collateral. issuer risk is the credit risk arising from inventory positions (for example, corporate debt securities and secondary bank loans). issuer risk is included in jefferies country risk exposure tables below. the amounts in the tables below are for amounts included in our consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2015 and 2014 (in millions). counterparty credit exposure by credit rating loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 aaa range $ $ $ 11.8 $ 1.9 $ $ $ 11.8 $ 1.9 $ 2,461.4 $ 2,921.4 $ 2,473.2 $ 2,923.3 aa range 2.7 152.3 134.6 4.4 7.1 156.7 144.4 175.0 412.9 331.7 557.3 a range 1.0 7.6 556.4 586.9 95.9 218.1 653.3 812.6 846.3 731.3 1,499.6 1,543.9 bbb range 86.6 132.3 107.9 73.6 31.7 34.8 226.2 240.7 25.8 2.8 252.0 243.5 bb or lower 197.5 189.9 14.8 127.9 30.1 45.2 242.4 363.0 242.4 363.0 unrated 85.1 139.6 0.1 85.2 139.6 1.7 11.5 86.9 151.1 total $ 370.2 $ 472.1 $ 843.2 $ 924.9 $ 162.2 $ 305.2 $ 1,375.6 $ 1,702.2 $ 3,510.2 $ 4,079.9 $ 4,885.8 $ 5,782.1 64 counterparty credit exposure by region loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 asia/latin america/ other $ 37.4 $ 48.8 $ 15.3 $ 55.7 $ 40.6 $ 24.6 $ 93.3 $ 129.1 $ 159.6 $ 221.0 $ 252.9 $ 350.1 europe 0.4 8.5 212.2 218.2 43.4 76.1 256.0 302.8 341.8 617.5 597.8 920.3 north america 332.4 414.8 615.7 651.0 78.2 204.5 1,026.3 1,270.3 3,008.8 3,241.4 4,035.1 4,511.7 total $ 370.2 $ 472.1 $ 843.2 $ 924.9 $ 162.2 $ 305.2 $ 1,375.6 $ 1,702.2 $ 3,510.2 $ 4,079.9 $ 4,885.8 $ 5,782.1 counterparty credit exposure by industry loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 asset managers $ $ $ 69.8 $ 91.8 $ $ $ 69.8 $ 91.8 $ 2,461.3 $ 2,921.4 $ 2,531.1 $ 3,013.2 banks, broker-dealers 0.9 10.7 464.9 482.2 95.1 251.4 560.9 744.3 1,048.9 1,158.5 1,609.8 1,902.8 commodities 59.9 16.7 24.8 16.7 84.7 16.7 84.7 corporates/loans 237.4 320.8 11.3 0.8 248.7 321.6 248.7 321.6 other 131.9 140.6 308.5 291.0 39.1 28.2 479.5 459.8 479.5 459.8 total $ 370.2 $ 472.1 $ 843.2 $ 924.9 $ 162.2 $ 305.2 $ 1,375.6 $ 1,702.2 $ 3,510.2 $ 4,079.9 $ 4,885.8 $ 5,782.1 for additional information regarding credit exposure to otc derivative contracts, see note 6 in our consolidated financial statements. jefferies country risk exposure country risk is the risk that events or developments that occur in the general environment of a country or countries due to economic, political, social, regulatory, legal or other factors, will affect the ability of obligors of the country to honor their obligations. jefferies defines country risk as the country of jurisdiction or domicile of the obligor. the following tables reflect jefferies top exposures to the sovereign governments, corporations and financial institutions in those non-u.s. countries in which there is net long issuer and counterparty exposure, as reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2015 and 2014 (in millions): december 31, 2015 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents belgium $ 413.8 $ (48.8 ) $ 6.2 $ $ $ $ 157.8 $ 371.2 $ 529.0 united kingdom 711.6 (359.3 ) 52.4 0.4 31.6 25.4 26.3 462.1 488.4 netherlands 543.5 (139.6 ) (23.4 ) 36.2 2.0 418.7 418.7 italy 1,112.2 (662.4 ) (105.6 ) 0.2 344.4 344.4 ireland 164.3 (27.4 ) 3.3 3.5 143.7 143.7 spain 394.0 (291.9 ) (1.6 ) 0.2 26.6 100.7 127.3 australia 86.6 (24.9 ) 9.6 37.4 0.3 0.8 109.0 109.8 hong kong 38.1 (22.3 ) (2.9 ) 0.4 74.8 13.3 88.1 switzerland 79.5 (28.9 ) (6.6 ) 34.5 5.2 3.7 83.7 87.4 portugal 111.9 (38.2 ) 73.7 73.7 total $ 3,655.5 $ (1,643.7 ) $ (68.6 ) $ 37.8 $ 106.2 $ 33.3 $ 290.0 $ 2,120.5 $ 2,410.5 65 december 31, 2014 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents germany $ 357.6 $ (153.7 ) $ 196.1 $ $ 97.8 $ 16.8 $ 59.5 $ 514.6 $ 574.1 spain 587.2 (171.0 ) 0.2 1.2 417.6 417.6 united kingdom 441.0 (252.5 ) (25.4 ) 6.5 29.8 25.2 138.9 224.6 363.5 belgium 137.6 (65.9 ) (8.4 ) 2.5 278.7 65.8 344.5 canada 123.1 (28.8 ) (27.3 ) 120.2 79.6 5.3 266.8 272.1 netherlands 341.4 (121.0 ) (13.5 ) 5.4 212.3 212.3 italy 1,467.9 (880.1 ) (427.7 ) 0.3 160.4 160.4 hong kong 18.4 (8.5 ) 0.6 145.1 10.5 155.6 luxembourg 5.6 (6.9 ) 2.9 0.4 127.2 2.0 129.2 puerto rico 108.2 0.8 109.0 109.0 total $ 3,588.0 $ (1,688.4 ) $ (303.3 ) $ 6.7 $ 257.9 $ 122.7 $ 754.7 $ 1,983.6 $ 2,738.3 in addition, jefferies' issuer and counterparty risk exposure to puerto rico was $40.1 million, as reflected in our consolidated statement of financial condition at december 31, 2015, which is in connection with its municipal securities market making activities. the government of puerto rico is seeking to restructure much of its $72 billion in debt on a voluntary basis. at december 31, 2015, jefferies had no material exposure to countries where either sovereign or non-sovereign sectors potentially pose potential default risk as the result of liquidity concerns, given that individually and collectively all countries of concern are less than 2% of jefferies' total exposure. other than our trading portfolio, our financial instrument portfolio is primarily classified as available for sale, and consequently, is recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in equity. included in our available for sale portfolio are fixed income securities, which comprised approximately 64% of the total available for sale portfolio at december 31, 2015 . these fixed income securities are primarily rated investment grade or are u.s. governmental agency issued or u.s. government-sponsored enterprises. the estimated weighted average remaining life of these fixed income securities was approximately 2.1 years at december 31, 2015 . our fixed income securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. at december 31, 2014 fixed income securities comprised approximately 94% of the total portfolio and had an estimated weighted average remaining life of approximately 2.5 years. also included in the available for sale portfolio are equity securities, which are recorded at an aggregate fair value of $73.6 million (aggregate cost of $53.0 million) and which comprised approximately 36% of our total available for sale portfolio at december 31, 2015 . we evaluate our portfolio for impairment on a quarterly basis. 66 the following table provides information about our financial instruments used for purposes other than trading that are primarily sensitive to changes in interest rates. for additional information see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive assets: available for sale fixed income securities: u.s. government $ 63,945 $ $ $ $ $ $ 63,945 $ 63,945 weighted-average interest rate 0.05 % residential mortgage-backed: rated investment grade $ 2,422 $ 818 $ 532 $ 320 $ 263 $ 1,637 $ 5,992 $ 5,992 weighted-average interest rate 2.62 % 2.73 % 2.51 % 2.20 % 2.09 % 2.03 % rated less than investment grade/not rated $ 6,740 $ 3,628 $ 2,268 $ 1,257 $ 786 $ 2,569 $ 17,248 $ 17,248 weighted-average interest rate 3.51 % 3.61 % 3.56 % 4.38 % 5.16 % 5.08 % commercial mortgage-backed: rated investment grade $ $ $ 295 $ $ $ $ 295 $ 295 weighted-average interest rate 4.18 % rated less than investment grade/not rated $ $ 1,186 $ 893 $ $ $ $ 2,079 $ 2,079 weighted-average interest rate 5.80 % 3.49 % other asset-backed: rated investment grade $ 13,667 $ 25,806 $ $ $ $ $ 39,473 $ 39,473 weighted-average interest rate 4.38 % 3.46 % all other corporates: rated investment grade $ 1,504 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,504 $ 1,504 weighted-average interest rate 2.75 % rated less than investment grade/not rated $ 2,729 $ $ $ 511 $ $ $ 3,240 $ 3,240 weighted-average interest rate 4.30 % 6.75 % 67 we are also subject to interest rate risk on our long-term fixed interest rate debt. generally, the fair market value of debt securities with a fixed interest rate will increase as interest rates fall, and the fair market value will decrease as interest rates rise. the following table represents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates for our consolidated long-term debt obligations. for the variable rate borrowings, the weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. our market risk with respect to foreign currency exposure on our long-term debt is also shown below. for additional information, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate borrowings $ 350,000 $ 433,724 $ 830,234 $ 700,500 $ $ 3,600,000 $ 5,914,458 $ 6,119,397 weighted-average interest rate 4.32 % 5.16 % 8.50 % 6.11 % variable interest rate borrowings $ 132,097 $ 32,385 $ 421,899 $ 2,436 $ 20,530 $ 48,287 $ 657,634 $ 658,323 weighted-average interest rate 2.84 % 4.44 % 4.87 % 3.96 % 2.62 % 4.00 % borrowings with foreign currency exposure $ $ $ $ $ 528,625 $ 4,229 $ 532,854 $ 521,685 weighted-average interest rate 2.37 % 2.25 % item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data . financial statements and supplementary data required by this item 8 are set forth at the pages indicated in item 15(a) below. item 9 . changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure . none. item 9a . controls and procedures . evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures the company's management evaluated, with the participation of the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, the effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act )), as of december 31, 2015 . based on their evaluation, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of december 31, 2015 . changes in internal control over financial reporting there has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act) that occurred during the company's fiscal quarter ended december 31, 2015 , that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting. management's report on internal control over financial reporting management of the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934. internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the assets of the company; 68 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company's management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015 . in making this assessment, the company's management used the criteria set forth in internal control-integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in 2013. based on our assessment and those criteria, management concluded that, as of december 31, 2015 , the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective. the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015 has been audited by pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein inquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . the following includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. the discussion of risk is presented separately for jefferies and the balance of our company. exclusive of jefferies, our market risk arises principally from interest rate risk related to our financial instruments owned and equity price risk. as more fully discussed in note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, we own approximately 46.6 million common shares of hrg, representing approximately 23% of hrg's outstanding common shares, which are accounted for under the fair value option and included within trading assets at fair value of $725.1 million at december 31, 2016 . assuming a decline of 10% in market prices, the value of our investment in hrg could decrease by approximately $72.5 million. the potential for changes in the value of financial instruments is referred to as market risk. jefferies market risk generally represents the risk of loss that may result from a change in the value of a financial instrument as a result of fluctuations in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, along with the level of volatility. interest rate risks result primarily from exposure to changes in the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates, and credit spreads. equity price risks result from exposure to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices. commodity price risks result from exposure to the changes in prices and volatilities of individual commodities, commodity baskets and commodity indices. market risk arises from market making, proprietary trading, underwriting, specialist and investing activities. jefferies seeks to manage its exposure to market risk by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes, and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. due to imperfections in correlations, gains and losses can occur even for positions that are hedged. position limits in trading and inventory accounts are established and monitored on an ongoing basis. each day, consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to various levels of management, which enable management to monitor inventory levels and results of the trading groups. value-at-risk within jefferies, value-at-risk (var) is used as a measurement of market risk using a model that simulates revenue and loss distributions on substantially all financial instruments by applying historical market changes to the current portfolio. using the results of this simulation, var measures the potential loss in value of our financial instruments over a specified time horizon at a given confidence level. jefferies calculates a one-day var using a one year look-back period measured at a 95% confidence level. as with all measures of var, the estimate has inherent limitations due to the assumption that historical changes in market conditions are representative of the future. furthermore, the var model measures the risk of a current static position over a one-day horizon and might not capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges in a one-day period. published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. while jefferies believes the assumptions and inputs in its risk model are reasonable, jefferies could incur losses greater than the reported var because the historical market prices and rates changes may not be an accurate measure of future market events and conditions. consequently, this var estimate is only one of a number of tools jefferies uses in its daily risk management activities. during the first quarter of 2016, jefferies experienced sizable losses given the exceptionally volatile and turbulent market, which were more dramatic than the estimates included in its var which are based on historical observations. when comparing the var 57 numbers to those of other firms, it is important to remember that different methodologies and assumptions could produce significantly different results. the following table illustrates each separate component of var for each component of market risk by interest rate, equity, currency and commodity products, as well as for jefferies overall trading positions using the past 365 days of historical data. the aggregated var presented here is less than the sum of the individual components (i.e., interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk, equity risk and commodity price risk) due to the benefit of diversification among the four risk categories. diversification effect equals the difference between aggregated var and the sum of vars for the four risk categories and arises because the market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. since we consolidate jefferies on a one month lag, all amounts reported are for jefferies annual fiscal periods. daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios (in millions) risk categories var at november 30, 2016 daily var for the year ended november 30, 2016 var at november 30, 2015 daily var for the year ended november 30, 2015 average high low average high low interest rates $ 5.82 $ 4.96 $ 6.99 $ 3.43 $ 5.01 $ 5.84 $ 8.06 $ 4.19 equity prices 6.71 5.42 9.55 2.60 6.69 9.79 13.61 5.39 currency rates 0.19 0.41 3.01 0.07 0.30 0.46 3.32 0.12 commodity prices 0.51 0.84 2.44 0.31 0.82 0.57 1.62 0.04 diversification effect (2) (4.79 ) (3.72 ) n/a n/a (5.09 ) (4.27 ) n/a n/a firmwide $ 8.44 $ 7.91 $ 11.40 $ 4.30 $ 7.73 $ 12.39 $ 17.75 $ 6.35 (1) for the var numbers reported above, a one-day time horizon, with a one year look-back period, and a 95% confidence level were used. (2) the diversification effect is not applicable for the maximum and minimum var values as the jefferies var and var values for the four risk categories might have occurred on different days during the period. average daily var decreased to $7.91 million for the year ended november 30, 2016 from $12.39 million for the year ended november 30, 2015, a 36.2% decrease. the decrease was primarily driven by lower block trading activity and firmwide defensive positioning resulting in lower equity risk and fixed income exposures, partially offset by a lower diversification benefit. in addition, var increased from $7.73 million at november 30, 2015 to $8.44 million at november 30, 2016. excluding the investment in kcg, average var decreased to $5.77 million for the year ended november 30, 2016 from $9.97 million in the year ended november 30, 2015. the primary method used to test the efficacy of the var model is to compare actual daily net revenue for those positions included in the var calculation with the daily var estimate. this evaluation is performed at various levels of the trading portfolio, from the holding company level down to specific business lines. for the var model, trading related revenue is defined as principal transaction revenue, trading related commissions, revenue from securitization activities and net interest income. for a 95% confidence one day var model (i.e., no intra-day trading), assuming current changes in market value are consistent with the historical changes used in the calculation, net trading losses would not be expected to exceed the var estimates more than twelve times on an annual basis (i.e., once in every 20 days). during the year ended november 30, 2016, results of the evaluation at the aggregate level demonstrated 3 days when the net trading loss exceeded the 95% one day var. 58 certain individual positions within financial instruments are not included in the var model because var is not the most appropriate measure of risk. accordingly, jefferies risk management has additional procedures in place to assure that the level of potential loss that would arise from market movements are within acceptable levels. such procedures include performing stress tests, monitoring concentration risk and tracking price target/stop loss levels. the table below presents the potential reduction in net income associated with a 10% stress of or the sensitivity to a 10% stress of the fair value of the positions that are not included in the var model at november 30, 2016 (in thousands): 10% sensitivity private investments $ 20,980 corporate debt securities in default 5,040 trade claims 491 excluding trading losses associated with the daily marking to market of the investment in kcg, there were 21 days with trading losses out of a total of 253 trading days in the year ended november 30, 2016. including these losses, there were 38 days with trading losses. scenario analysis and stress tests while var measures potential losses due to adverse changes in historical market prices and rates, jefferies uses stress testing to analyze the potential impact of specific events or moderate or extreme market moves on its current portfolio both firm wide and within business segments. stress scenarios comprise both historical market price and rate changes and hypothetical market environments, and generally involve simultaneous changes of many risk factors. indicative market changes in jefferies scenarios include, but are not limited to, a large widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equities markets, significant moves in selected emerging markets, large moves in interest rates, changes in the shape of the yield curve and large moves in european markets. in addition, jefferies also performs ad hoc stress tests and adds new scenarios as market conditions dictate. because jefferies stress scenarios are meant to reflect market moves that occur over a period of time, its estimates of potential loss assume some level of position reduction for liquid positions. unlike jefferies var, which measures potential losses within a given confidence interval, stress scenarios do not have an associated implied probability; rather, stress testing is used to estimate the potential loss from market moves that tend to be larger than those embedded in the var calculation. stress testing is performed and reported regularly as part of the risk management process. stress testing is used to assess jefferies aggregate risk position as well as for limit setting and risk/reward analysis. counterparty credit risk and issuer country exposure counterparty credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a counterparty's credit worthiness or its ability or willingness to meet its financial obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions of a financial contract. jefferies is exposed to credit risk as trading counterparty to other broker-dealers and customers, as a direct lender and through extending loan commitments, as a holder of securities and as a member of exchanges and clearing organizations. it is critical to jefferies financial soundness and profitability that jefferies properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage the various credit and counterparty risks inherent in its businesses. credit is extended to counterparties in a controlled manner in order to generate acceptable returns, whether such credit is granted directly or is incidental to a transaction. all extensions of credit are monitored and managed on a jefferies enterprise level in order to limit exposure to loss related to credit risk. jefferies employs a credit risk framework, which is responsible for identifying credit risks throughout its operating businesses, establishing counterparty limits and managing and monitoring those credit limits. jefferies framework includes: defining credit limit guidelines and credit limit approval processes; providing a consistent and integrated credit risk framework across the enterprise; approving counterparties and counterparty limits with parameters set by its risk management committee; negotiating, approving and monitoring credit terms in legal and master documentation; delivering credit limits to all relevant sales and trading desks; maintaining credit reviews for all active and new counterparties; 59 operating a control function for exposure analytics and exception management and reporting; determining the analytical standards and risk parameters for on-going management and monitoring of global credit risk books; actively managing daily exposure, exceptions, and breaches; monitoring daily margin call activity and counterparty performance (in concert with the margin department); and setting the minimum global requirements for systems, reports, and technology. jefferies credit exposures credit exposure exists across a wide-range of products including cash and cash equivalents, loans, securities finance transactions and over-the-counter derivative contracts. loans and lending arise in connection with jefferies capital markets activities and represents the current exposure, amount at risk on a default event with no recovery of loans. current exposure represents loans that have been drawn by the borrower and lending commitments outstanding. in addition, credit exposures on forward settling traded loans are included within jefferies loans and lending exposures for consistency with the statement of financial condition categorization of these items. securities and margin finance includes credit exposure arising on securities financing transactions (reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements) to the extent the fair value of the underlying collateral differs from the contractual agreement amount and from margin provided to customers. derivatives represent over-the-counter ("otc") derivatives, which are reported net by counterparty when a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement. derivatives are accounted for at fair value net of cash collateral received or posted under credit support agreements. in addition, credit exposures on forward settling trades are included within jefferies derivative credit exposures. cash and cash equivalents include both interest-bearing and non-interest bearing deposits at banks. current counterparty credit exposures are summarized in the table below and provided by credit quality, region and industry. credit exposures presented take netting and collateral into consideration by counterparty and master agreement. collateral taken into consideration includes both collateral received as cash as well as collateral received in the form of securities or other arrangements. current exposure is the loss that would be incurred on a particular set of positions in the event of default by the counterparty, assuming no recovery. current exposure equals the fair value of the positions less collateral. issuer risk is the credit risk arising from inventory positions (for example, corporate debt securities and secondary bank loans). issuer risk is included in jefferies country risk exposure tables below. the amounts in the tables below are for amounts included in our consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2016 and 2015 (in millions). counterparty credit exposure by credit rating loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (1) (1) (1) aaa range $ $ $ $ 11.8 $ $ $ $ 11.8 $ 2,601.8 $ 2,461.4 $ 2,601.8 $ 2,473.2 aa range 44.0 87.3 152.3 2.1 4.4 133.4 156.7 37.0 175.0 170.4 331.7 a range 4.2 1.0 539.2 556.4 214.7 96.0 758.1 653.4 814.1 846.3 1,572.2 1,499.7 bbb range 4.9 86.6 117.3 107.9 9.4 31.7 131.6 226.2 51.2 25.8 182.8 252.0 bb or lower 100.1 181.6 6.2 14.8 23.8 30.1 130.1 226.5 25.1 155.2 226.5 unrated 93.5 56.3 0.1 93.5 56.4 0.3 1.7 93.8 58.1 total $ 246.7 $ 325.5 $ 750.0 $ 843.2 $ 250.0 $ 162.3 $ 1,246.7 $ 1,331.0 $ 3,529.5 $ 3,510.2 $ 4,776.2 $ 4,841.2 60 counterparty credit exposure by region loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (1) (1) (1) asia/latin america/ other $ 4.9 $ 10.1 $ 16.3 $ 15.3 $ 32.7 $ 40.6 $ 53.9 $ 66.0 $ 165.8 $ 159.6 $ 219.7 $ 225.6 europe 0.4 234.4 212.2 20.9 43.4 255.3 256.0 248.0 341.8 503.3 597.8 north america 241.8 315.0 499.3 615.7 196.4 78.3 937.5 1,009.0 3,115.7 3,008.8 4,053.2 4,017.8 total $ 246.7 $ 325.5 $ 750.0 $ 843.2 $ 250.0 $ 162.3 $ 1,246.7 $ 1,331.0 $ 3,529.5 $ 3,510.2 $ 4,776.2 $ 4,841.2 counterparty credit exposure by industry loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (1) (1) (1) asset managers $ $ $ 39.7 $ 69.8 $ 10.9 $ $ 50.6 $ 69.8 $ 2,599.5 $ 2,461.3 $ 2,650.1 $ 2,531.1 banks, broker-dealers 0.2 0.9 435.9 464.9 170.4 95.2 606.5 561.0 930.0 1,048.9 1,536.5 1,609.9 commodities 3.3 16.7 3.3 16.7 3.3 16.7 corporates/loans 204.4 193.9 18.4 11.3 222.8 205.2 222.8 205.2 other 42.1 130.7 274.4 308.5 47.0 39.1 363.5 478.3 363.5 478.3 total $ 246.7 $ 325.5 $ 750.0 $ 843.2 $ 250.0 $ 162.3 $ 1,246.7 $ 1,331.0 $ 3,529.5 $ 3,510.2 $ 4,776.2 $ 4,841.2 (1) loans and lending amounts have been recast to conform to the current period's presentation. loans and lending amounts include the current exposure, the amount at risk on a default event with no recovery of loans. previously, loans and lending amounts represented the notional value. for additional information regarding credit exposure to otc derivative contracts, see note 5 in the consolidated financial statements. 61 jefferies country risk exposure country risk is the risk that events or developments that occur in the general environment of a country or countries due to economic, political, social, regulatory, legal or other factors, will affect the ability of obligors of the country to honor their obligations. jefferies defines country risk as the country of jurisdiction or domicile of the obligor. the following tables reflect jefferies top exposures to the sovereign governments, corporations and financial institutions in those non-u.s. countries in which there is net long issuer and counterparty exposure, as reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2016 and 2015 (in millions): december 31, 2016 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents germany $ 318.9 $ (166.4 ) $ 815.3 $ $ 86.9 $ 0.3 $ 111.9 $ 1,055.0 $ 1,166.9 italy 1,069.8 (844.2 ) 69.8 0.2 295.6 295.6 france 356.2 (538.4 ) 419.5 24.8 3.4 265.5 265.5 united kingdom 290.1 (136.4 ) (12.7 ) 61.0 13.4 37.7 215.4 253.1 spain 210.4 (151.7 ) 0.3 50.2 59.0 109.2 hong kong 34.0 (30.2 ) 1.3 0.5 79.1 5.6 84.7 switzerland 80.7 (33.6 ) 12.1 11.4 2.2 4.1 72.8 76.9 ireland 124.4 (61.2 ) 4.4 0.6 68.2 68.2 singapore 36.2 (9.6 ) 3.9 16.1 30.5 46.6 qatar 15.2 (0.7 ) 27.1 41.6 41.6 total $ 2,535.9 $ (1,972.4 ) $ 1,313.6 $ $ 185.2 $ 46.9 $ 299.1 $ 2,109.2 $ 2,408.3 december 31, 2015 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents belgium $ 413.8 $ (48.8 ) $ 6.2 $ $ $ $ 157.8 $ 371.2 $ 529.0 united kingdom 711.6 (359.3 ) 52.4 0.4 31.6 25.4 26.3 462.1 488.4 netherlands 543.5 (139.6 ) (23.4 ) 36.2 2.0 418.7 418.7 italy 1,112.2 (662.4 ) (105.6 ) 0.2 344.4 344.4 ireland 164.3 (27.4 ) 3.3 3.5 143.7 143.7 spain 394.0 (291.9 ) (1.6 ) 0.2 26.6 100.7 127.3 australia 86.6 (24.9 ) 9.6 37.4 0.3 0.8 109.0 109.8 hong kong 38.1 (22.3 ) (2.9 ) 0.4 74.8 13.3 88.1 switzerland 79.5 (28.9 ) (6.6 ) 34.5 5.2 3.7 83.7 87.4 portugal 111.9 (38.2 ) 73.7 73.7 total $ 3,655.5 $ (1,643.7 ) $ (68.6 ) $ 37.8 $ 106.2 $ 33.3 $ 290.0 $ 2,120.5 $ 2,410.5 in addition, jefferies' issuer and counterparty risk exposure to puerto rico was $31.0 million, as reflected in our consolidated statement of financial condition at december 31, 2016 , which is in connection with its municipal securities market making activities. the government of puerto rico is seeking to restructure much of its $70.0 billion in debt on a voluntary basis. at december 31, 2016 , jefferies had no material exposure to countries where either sovereign or non-sovereign sectors potentially pose potential default risk as the result of liquidity concerns. other than our trading portfolio, our financial instrument portfolio is primarily classified as available for sale, and consequently, is recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in equity. included in our available for sale portfolio are fixed income securities, which comprised approximately 74% of the total available for sale portfolio at december 31, 2016 . these fixed 62 income securities are primarily rated investment grade or are u.s. governmental agency issued or u.s. government-sponsored enterprises. the estimated weighted average remaining life of these fixed income securities was approximately 0.9 years at december 31, 2016 . our fixed income securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. at december 31, 2015 , fixed income securities comprised approximately 64% of the total portfolio and had an estimated weighted average remaining life of approximately 2.1 years. also included in the available for sale portfolio are equity securities, which are recorded at an aggregate fair value of $79.4 million (aggregate cost of $53.0 million) and which comprised approximately 26% of our total available for sale portfolio at december 31, 2016 . we evaluate our portfolio for impairment on a quarterly basis. the following table provides information about our financial instruments used for purposes other than trading that are primarily sensitive to changes in interest rates. for additional information see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive assets: available for sale fixed income securities: u.s. government $ 174,933 $ $ $ $ $ $ 174,933 $ 174,933 weighted-average interest rate 0.21 % residential mortgage-backed: rated investment grade $ 3,122 $ 1,714 $ 3,240 $ 933 $ 708 $ 1,901 $ 11,618 $ 11,618 weighted-average interest rate 2.70 % 2.74 % 3.55 % 2.58 % 2.56 % 2.75 % rated less than investment grade/not rated $ 2,833 $ 1,415 $ 2,130 $ 221 $ 170 $ 746 $ 7,515 $ 7,515 weighted-average interest rate 2.12 % 2.88 % 3.81 % 3.99 % 3.94 % 3.97 % commercial mortgage-backed: rated investment grade $ $ 3,464 $ 995 $ 3,878 $ $ $ 8,337 $ 8,337 weighted-average interest rate 2.80 % 3.80 % 4.10 % other asset-backed: rated investment grade $ 6,403 $ 12,639 $ $ $ $ $ 19,042 $ 19,042 weighted-average interest rate 2.80 % 3.08 % all other corporates: rated less than investment grade/not rated $ $ $ 179 $ $ $ $ 179 $ 179 weighted-average interest rate 6.75 % 63 we are also subject to interest rate risk on our long-term fixed interest rate debt. generally, the fair market value of debt securities with a fixed interest rate will increase as interest rates fall, and the fair market value will decrease as interest rates rise. the following table represents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates for our consolidated long-term debt obligations. for the variable rate borrowings, the weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. our market risk with respect to foreign currency exposure on our long-term debt is also shown below. for additional information, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate borrowings $ 345,000 $ 863,910 $ 945,253 $ 104,500 $ 750,000 $ 3,071,358 $ 6,080,021 $ 6,366,749 weighted-average interest rate 3.88 % 5.19 % 7.62 % 5.49 % 6.88 % 5.77 % variable interest rate borrowings $ 100,454 $ 316,558 $ 2,511 $ 34,555 $ 2,655 $ 45,648 $ 502,381 $ 502,090 weighted-average interest rate 3.54 % 4.08 % 3.98 % 3.26 % 3.97 % 4.01 % borrowings with foreign currency exposure $ $ 6,360 $ 10,600 $ 529,975 $ $ 41,339 $ 588,274 $ 601,475 weighted-average interest rate 0.74 % 2.15 % 2.38 % 3.82 % item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data . financial statements and supplementary data required by this item 8 are set forth at the pages indicated in item 15(a) below. item 9 . changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure . none. item 9a . controls and procedures . evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures the company's management evaluated, with the participation of the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, the effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act )), as of december 31, 2016 . based on their evaluation, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of december 31, 2016 . changes in internal control over financial reporting there has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act) that occurred during the company's fiscal quarter ended december 31, 2016 , that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting. 64 management's report on internal control over financial reporting management of the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934. internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company's management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 . in making this assessment, the company's management used the criteria set forth in internal control-integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in 2013. based on our assessment and those criteria, management concluded that, as of december 31, 2016 , the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective. the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 has been audited by pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein inquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . the following includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. the discussion of risk is presented separately for jefferies and the balance of our company. exclusive of jefferies, our market risk arises principally from interest rate risk related to our financial instruments owned and equity price risk. as more fully discussed in note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, we own approximately 46.6 million common shares of hrg, representing approximately 23% of hrg's outstanding common shares, which are accounted for under the fair value option and included within trading assets at fair value of $789.9 million at december 31, 2017 . assuming a decline of 10% in market prices, the value of our investment in hrg could decrease by approximately $79.0 million. excluding jefferies and hrg, financial instruments owned include corporate equity securities with an aggregate fair value of $659.6 million at december 31, 2017 . assuming a decline of 10% in market prices, the value of these investments would decrease by approximately $66.0 million. jefferies the potential for changes in the value of financial instruments is referred to as market risk. jefferies market risk generally represents the risk of loss that may result from a change in the value of a financial instrument as a result of fluctuations in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, along with the level of volatility. interest rate risks result primarily from exposure to changes in the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates, and credit spreads. equity price risks result from exposure to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices. commodity price risks result from exposure to the changes in prices and volatilities of individual commodities, commodity baskets and commodity indices. market risk arises from market making, proprietary trading, underwriting, specialist and investing activities. jefferies seeks to manage its exposure to market risk by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes, and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. due to imperfections in correlations, gains and losses can occur even for positions that are hedged. position limits in trading and inventory accounts are established and monitored on an ongoing basis. each day, consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to various levels of management, which enable management to monitor inventory levels and results of the trading groups. value-at-risk within jefferies, value-at-risk ("var") is used as a measurement of market risk using a model that simulates revenue and loss distributions on its trading portfolios by applying historical market changes to the current portfolio. using the results of this simulation, var measures the potential loss in value of its financial instruments due to adverse market movements over a specified time horizon at a given confidence level. jefferies calculates a one-day var using a one year look-back period measured at a 95% confidence level. as with all measures of var, the estimate has inherent limitations due to the assumption that historical changes in market conditions are representative of the future. furthermore, the var model measures the risk of a current static position over a one-day horizon and might not capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges in a one-day period. published var results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. while jefferies believes the assumptions and inputs in its risk model are reasonable, jefferies could incur losses greater than the reported var because the historical market prices and rates changes may not be an accurate measure of future market events and conditions. consequently, this var estimate is only one of a number of tools jefferies uses in its daily risk management activities. 56 when comparing the var numbers to those of other firms, it is important to remember that different methodologies and assumptions could produce significantly different results. the following table illustrates each separate component of var for each component of market risk by interest rate, equity, currency and commodity products, as well as for jefferies overall trading positions using the past 365 days of historical data. the aggregated var presented here is less than the sum of the individual components (i.e., interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk, equity risk and commodity price risk) due to the benefit of diversification among the four risk categories. diversification benefit equals the difference between aggregated var and the sum of vars for the four risk categories and arises because the market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. since we consolidate jefferies on a one month lag, all amounts reported are for jefferies annual fiscal periods. daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios (in millions) risk categories var at december 31, 2017 daily var for the year ended december 31, 2017 var at december 31, 2016 daily var for the year ended december 31, 2016 average high low average high low interest rates $ 3.38 $ 5.11 $ 9.59 $ 2.63 $ 5.82 $ 4.96 $ 6.99 $ 3.43 equity prices 2.90 5.17 17.20 2.52 6.71 5.42 9.55 2.60 currency rates 0.18 0.22 0.65 0.06 0.19 0.41 3.01 0.07 commodity prices 0.35 0.73 2.20 0.27 0.51 0.84 2.44 0.31 diversification effect (2) (1.86 ) (3.44 ) n/a n/a (4.79 ) (3.72 ) n/a n/a firmwide $ 4.95 $ 7.79 $ 17.55 $ 4.52 $ 8.44 $ 7.91 $ 11.40 $ 4.30 (1) for the var numbers reported above, a one-day time horizon, with a one year look-back period, and a 95% confidence level were used. (2) the diversification effect is not applicable for the maximum and minimum var values as the jefferies var and var values for the four risk categories might have occurred on different days during the year. average daily var slightly declined to $7.79 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $7.91 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . the slight decline was due to lower equity, currency rate and commodity price risk, partially offset by an increase in interest rate risk and a lower diversification benefit. the primary method used to test the efficacy of the var model is to compare actual daily net revenue for those positions included in the var calculation with the daily var estimate. this evaluation is performed at various levels of the trading portfolio, from the holding company level down to specific business lines. for the var model, trading related revenue is defined as principal transaction revenue, trading related commissions, revenue from securitization activities and net interest income. for a 95% confidence one day var model (i.e., no intra-day trading), assuming current changes in market value are consistent with the historical changes used in the calculation, net trading losses would not be expected to exceed the var estimates more than twelve times on an annual basis (i.e., once in every 20 days). during 2017 , results of the evaluation at the aggregate level demonstrated no days when the net trading loss exceeded the 95% one day var. certain positions within financial instruments are not included in the var model because var is not the most appropriate measure of risk. accordingly, jefferies risk management has additional procedures in place to assure that the level of potential loss that would arise from market movements are within acceptable levels. such procedures include performing stress tests, monitoring concentration risk and tracking price target/stop loss levels. the table below presents the potential reduction in net income associated with a 10% stress of the fair value of the positions that are not included in the var model at december 31, 2017 (in thousands): 10% sensitivity private investments $ 15,464 corporate debt securities in default 13,755 trade claims 3,141 var also excludes the impact of changes in jefferies own credit spreads on its structured notes for which the fair value option was elected. the estimated credit spread risk sensitivity for each one basis point widening in jefferies own credit spreads on financial 57 liabilities for which the fair value option was elected was an increase in value of approximately $0.7 million at december 31, 2017 . there were 14 days with trading losses out of a total of 252 trading days in 2017 . scenario analysis and stress tests while var measures potential losses due to adverse changes in historical market prices and rates, jefferies uses stress testing to analyze the potential impact of specific events or moderate or extreme market moves on its current portfolio both firm wide and within business segments. stress scenarios comprise both historical market price and rate changes and hypothetical market environments, and generally involve simultaneous changes of many risk factors. indicative market changes in jefferies scenarios include, but are not limited to, a large widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equities markets, significant moves in selected emerging markets, large moves in interest rates, changes in the shape of the yield curve and large moves in european markets. in addition, jefferies also performs ad hoc stress tests and adds new scenarios as market conditions dictate. because jefferies stress scenarios are meant to reflect market moves that occur over a period of time, its estimates of potential loss assume some level of position reduction for liquid positions. unlike jefferies var, which measures potential losses within a given confidence interval, stress scenarios do not have an associated implied probability; rather, stress testing is used to estimate the potential loss from market moves that tend to be larger than those embedded in the var calculation. stress testing is performed and reported regularly as part of the risk management process. stress testing is used to assess jefferies aggregate risk position as well as for limit setting and risk/reward analysis. counterparty credit risk and issuer country exposure counterparty credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a counterparty's credit worthiness or its ability or willingness to meet its financial obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions of a financial contract. jefferies is exposed to credit risk as trading counterparty to other broker-dealers and customers, as a direct lender and through extending loan commitments, as a holder of securities and as a member of exchanges and clearing organizations. it is critical to jefferies financial soundness and profitability that jefferies properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage the various credit and counterparty risks inherent in its businesses. credit is extended to counterparties in a controlled manner in order to generate acceptable returns, whether such credit is granted directly or is incidental to a transaction. all extensions of credit are monitored and managed on a jefferies enterprise level in order to limit exposure to loss related to credit risk. jefferies employs a credit risk framework, which is responsible for identifying credit risks throughout its operating businesses, establishing counterparty limits and managing and monitoring those credit limits. jefferies framework includes: defining credit limit guidelines and credit limit approval processes; providing a consistent and integrated credit risk framework across the enterprise; approving counterparties and counterparty limits with parameters set by its risk management committee; negotiating, approving and monitoring credit terms in legal and master documentation; delivering credit limits to all relevant sales and trading desks; maintaining credit reviews for all active and new counterparties; operating a control function for exposure analytics and exception management and reporting; determining the analytical standards and risk parameters for on-going management and monitoring of global credit risk books; actively managing daily exposure, exceptions, and breaches; monitoring daily margin call activity and counterparty performance (in concert with the margin department); and setting the minimum global requirements for systems, reports, and technology. jefferies credit exposures credit exposure exists across a wide-range of products, which includes the following: loans and lending, arising in connection with jefferies capital markets activities and forward settling traded loans; securities and margin finance, which represents securities financing transactions (reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements); 58 otc derivatives, which are reported net by counterparty when a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement, and includes forward settling trades; and cash and cash equivalents, which include both interest-bearing and non-interest bearing deposits at banks. current counterparty credit exposures are summarized in the table below and provided by credit quality, region and industry. credit exposures presented take netting and collateral into consideration by counterparty and master agreement. collateral taken into consideration includes both collateral received as cash as well as collateral received in the form of securities or other arrangements. current exposure is the loss that would be incurred on a particular set of positions in the event of default by the counterparty, assuming no recovery. current exposure equals the fair value of the positions less collateral. issuer risk is the credit risk arising from inventory positions (for example, corporate debt securities and secondary bank loans). issuer risk is included in jefferies country risk exposure tables below. of jefferies counterparty credit exposure at december 31, 2017 , excluding cash and cash equivalents, the percentage of exposure from investment grade counterparties increased to 92% from 82% at december 31, 2016 , with a majority concentrated in north america. when comparing jefferies credit exposure at december 31, 2017 with credit exposure at december 31, 2016 , excluding cash and cash equivalents, current exposure increased to approximately $1,353 million from $1,247 million. counterparty credit exposure increased over the year by 24% from otc derivatives, primarily driven by investment grade north american banks and broker- dealers, and by 22% from securities and margin finance, primarily driven by investment grade european banks and broker-dealers. counterparty credit exposure from jefferies loans and lending portfolio decreased by 46%, primarily attributed to north american loans. the amounts in the tables below are for amounts included in our consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2017 and 2016 (in millions). counterparty credit exposure by credit rating loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 aaa range $ $ $ 6.4 $ $ $ $ 6.4 $ $ 2,924.2 $ 2,601.8 $ 2,930.6 $ 2,601.8 aa range 47.7 44.0 61.3 87.3 3.8 2.1 112.8 133.4 158.6 37.0 271.4 170.4 a range 1.2 4.2 603.0 539.2 260.6 214.7 864.8 758.1 1,751.9 814.1 2,616.7 1,572.2 bbb range 0.5 4.9 232.5 117.3 28.5 9.4 261.5 131.6 152.3 51.2 413.8 182.8 bb or lower 12.5 100.1 8.1 6.2 16.7 23.8 37.3 130.1 100.6 25.1 137.9 155.2 unrated 70.1 93.5 70.1 93.5 76.9 0.3 147.0 93.8 total $ 132.0 $ 246.7 $ 911.3 $ 750.0 $ 309.6 $ 250.0 $ 1,352.9 $ 1,246.7 $ 5,164.5 $ 3,529.5 $ 6,517.4 $ 4,776.2 counterparty credit exposure by region loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 asia/latin america/ other $ 3.0 $ 4.9 $ 45.8 $ 16.3 $ 0.3 $ 32.7 $ 49.1 $ 53.9 $ 280.7 $ 165.8 $ 329.8 $ 219.7 europe 1.0 403.5 234.4 54.0 20.9 458.5 255.3 540.0 248.0 998.5 503.3 north america 128.0 241.8 462.0 499.3 255.3 196.4 845.3 937.5 4,343.8 3,115.7 5,189.1 4,053.2 total $ 132.0 $ 246.7 $ 911.3 $ 750.0 $ 309.6 $ 250.0 $ 1,352.9 $ 1,246.7 $ 5,164.5 $ 3,529.5 $ 6,517.4 $ 4,776.2 59 counterparty credit exposure by industry loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 asset managers $ $ $ 15.9 $ 39.7 $ 7.1 $ 10.9 $ 23.0 $ 50.6 $ 2,920.3 $ 2,599.5 $ 2,943.3 $ 2,650.1 banks, broker-dealers 1.7 0.2 620.8 435.9 282.6 170.4 905.1 606.5 2,244.2 930.0 3,149.3 1,536.5 commodities 3.3 3.3 3.3 corporates 87.5 204.4 14.7 18.4 102.2 222.8 102.2 222.8 other 42.8 42.1 274.6 274.4 5.2 47.0 322.6 363.5 322.6 363.5 total $ 132.0 $ 246.7 $ 911.3 $ 750.0 $ 309.6 $ 250.0 $ 1,352.9 $ 1,246.7 $ 5,164.5 $ 3,529.5 $ 6,517.4 $ 4,776.2 for additional information regarding credit exposure to otc derivative contracts, see note 5 in the consolidated financial statements. jefferies country risk exposure country risk is the risk that events or developments that occur in the general environment of a country or countries due to economic, political, social, regulatory, legal or other factors, will affect the ability of obligors of the country to honor their obligations. jefferies defines the country of risk as the country of jurisdiction or domicile of the obligor. the following tables reflect jefferies top exposures to the sovereign governments, corporations and financial institutions in those non-u.s. countries in which there is net long issuer and counterparty exposure, as reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition at december 31, 2017 and 2016 (in millions): december 31, 2017 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents germany $ 493.3 $ (396.2 ) $ 98.2 $ $ 78.9 $ 2.1 $ 181.9 $ 276.3 $ 458.2 united kingdom 634.6 (394.4 ) (72.1 ) 0.7 97.8 26.9 45.0 293.5 338.5 spain 217.9 (181.3 ) 7.5 151.6 44.1 195.7 japan 100.1 (81.3 ) 4.1 25.8 136.3 48.7 185.0 canada 205.3 (164.7 ) (128.5 ) 17.3 222.8 7.4 152.2 159.6 netherlands 315.9 (210.9 ) 0.9 44.1 2.2 152.2 152.2 switzerland 31.0 (16.9 ) (1.1 ) 54.3 3.3 4.5 70.6 75.1 hong kong 23.0 (25.1 ) 1.0 58.7 (1.1 ) 57.6 australia 50.5 (14.0 ) 0.3 15.0 0.3 4.7 52.1 56.8 singapore 36.0 (4.2 ) 24.7 31.8 56.5 total $ 2,107.6 $ (1,489.0 ) $ (90.7 ) $ 0.7 $ 334.2 $ 257.6 $ 614.8 $ 1,120.4 $ 1,735.2 60 december 31, 2016 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents germany $ 318.9 $ (166.4 ) $ 815.3 $ $ 86.9 $ 0.3 $ 111.9 $ 1,055.0 $ 1,166.9 italy 1,069.8 (844.2 ) 69.8 0.2 295.6 295.6 france 356.2 (538.4 ) 419.5 24.8 3.4 265.5 265.5 united kingdom 290.1 (136.4 ) (12.7 ) 61.0 13.4 37.7 215.4 253.1 spain 210.4 (151.7 ) 0.3 50.2 59.0 109.2 hong kong 34.0 (30.2 ) 1.3 0.5 79.1 5.6 84.7 switzerland 80.7 (33.6 ) 12.1 11.4 2.2 4.1 72.8 76.9 ireland 124.4 (61.2 ) 4.4 0.6 68.2 68.2 singapore 36.2 (9.6 ) 3.9 16.1 30.5 46.6 qatar 15.2 (0.7 ) 27.1 41.6 41.6 total $ 2,535.9 $ (1,972.4 ) $ 1,313.6 $ $ 185.2 $ 46.9 $ 299.1 $ 2,109.2 $ 2,408.3 jefferies' net issuer and counterparty risk exposure to puerto rico was $29.7 million, as reflected in our consolidated statement of financial condition at december 31, 2017 , is in connection with its municipal securities market-making activities. the government of puerto rico is seeking to restructure much of its $73.8 billion in debt on a voluntary basis. at december 31, 2017 , jefferies had no other material exposure to countries where either sovereign or non-sovereign sectors potentially pose potential default risk as the result of liquidity concerns. other than our trading portfolio, our financial instrument portfolio is primarily classified as available for sale, and consequently, is recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in equity. included in our available for sale portfolio are fixed income securities, which comprised approximately 88% of the total available for sale portfolio at december 31, 2017 . these fixed income securities are primarily rated investment grade or are u.s. governmental agency issued or u.s. government-sponsored enterprises. the estimated weighted average remaining life of these fixed income securities was approximately 0.5 years at december 31, 2017 . our fixed income securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. at december 31, 2016 , fixed income securities comprised approximately 74% of the total portfolio and had an estimated weighted average remaining life of approximately 0.9 years. also included in the available for sale portfolio are equity securities, which are recorded at an aggregate fair value of $88.5 million (aggregate cost of $52.6 million) and which comprised approximately 12% of our total available for sale portfolio at december 31, 2017 . we evaluate our portfolio for impairment on a quarterly basis. 61 the following table provides information about our financial instruments used for purposes other than trading that are primarily sensitive to changes in interest rates. for additional information see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive assets: available for sale fixed income securities: u.s. government $ 552,805 $ $ $ $ $ $ 552,805 $ 552,805 weighted-average interest rate 0.28 % residential mortgage-backed: rated investment grade $ 5,519 $ 4,854 $ 2,884 $ 2,218 $ 1,643 $ 5,092 $ 22,210 $ 22,210 weighted-average interest rate 3.12 % 3.30 % 3.06 % 3.02 % 3.05 % 3.11 % rated less than investment grade/not rated $ 2,779 $ 3,247 $ 3,139 $ 706 $ 583 $ 1,897 $ 12,351 $ 12,351 weighted-average interest rate 3.20 % 3.39 % 3.57 % 5.24 % 5.40 % 5.46 % commercial mortgage-backed: rated investment grade $ $ $ 864 $ 2,003 $ $ $ 2,867 $ 2,867 weighted-average interest rate 5.25 % 3.55 % rated less than investment grade/not rated $ $ 3,003 $ $ $ $ $ 3,003 $ 3,003 weighted-average interest rate 3.28 % other asset-backed: rated investment grade $ 19,423 $ 6,691 $ 4,944 $ 1,503 $ $ $ 32,561 $ 32,561 weighted-average interest rate 3.48 % 4.29 % 3.63 % 3.18 % rated less than investment grade/not rated $ 788 $ $ 1,490 $ $ $ $ 2,278 $ 2,278 weighted-average interest rate 4.50 % 4.52 % 62 we are also subject to interest rate risk on our long-term fixed interest rate debt. generally, the fair market value of debt securities with a fixed interest rate will increase as interest rates fall, and the fair market value will decrease as interest rates rise. the following table represents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates for our consolidated long-term debt obligations. for the variable rate borrowings, the weighted-average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. our market risk with respect to foreign currency exposure on our long-term debt is also shown below. for additional information, see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate borrowings $ 678,300 $ 684,288 $ $ 750,000 $ 25,000 $ 4,443,909 $ 6,581,497 $ 7,076,326 weighted-average interest rate 5.13 % 8.49 % 6.88 % 3.00 % 5.64 % variable interest rate borrowings $ 16,407 $ 90,919 $ 125,217 $ 2,656 $ 202,746 $ 42,904 $ 480,849 $ 479,996 weighted-average interest rate 4.84 % 3.62 % 3.18 % 3.96 % 4.03 % 3.83 % borrowings with foreign currency exposure $ 7,137 $ 5,947 $ 594,725 $ $ 4,758 $ 90,398 $ 702,965 $ 728,844 weighted-average interest rate 1.07 % 0.67 % 2.38 % 2.25 % 3.75 % item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data . financial statements and supplementary data required by this item 8 are set forth at the pages indicated in item 15(a) below. item 9 . changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure . none. item 9a . controls and procedures . evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures the company's management evaluated, with the participation of the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, the effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act )), as of december 31, 2017 . based on their evaluation, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of december 31, 2017 . changes in internal control over financial reporting there has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act) that occurred during the company's fiscal quarter ended december 31, 2017 , that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting. 63 management's report on internal control over financial reporting management of the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934. internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company's management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017 . in making this assessment, the company's management used the criteria set forth in internal control-integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in 2013. based on our assessment and those criteria, management concluded that, as of december 31, 2017 , the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective. the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein inquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . the following includes "forward-looking statements" that involve risk and uncertainties. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. the discussion of risk is presented separately for jefferies group and the balance of our company. exclusive of jefferies group, our market risk arises principally from interest rate risk related to our financial instruments owned and equity price risk. as more fully discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, at november 30, 2018 , we owned approximately 7.5 million common shares of spectrum brands, representing approximately 14% of spectrum brands outstanding common shares, which are accounted for under the fair value option and included within trading assets at fair value of $371.1 million at november 30, 2018 . assuming a decline of 10% in market prices, the value of our investment in spectrum brands could decrease by approximately $37.1 million. excluding jefferies group and spectrum brands, trading assets at fair value include corporate equity securities with an aggregate fair value of $495.5 million at november 30, 2018 . assuming a decline of 10% in market prices, the value of these investments could decrease by approximately $49.6 million. jefferies group market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss due to fluctuations in the market value of financial assets and liabilities attributable to changes in market variables. 54 jefferies group's market risk principally arises from interest rate risk, from exposure to changes in the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates, and credit spreads, and from equity price risks from exposure to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices. in addition, commodity price risk results from exposure to the changes in prices and volatilities of individual commodities, commodity baskets and commodity indices, and foreign exchange risk results from changes in foreign currency rates. market risk is present in jefferies group's market making, proprietary trading, underwriting, specialist and investing activities and is principally managed by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes, and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. due to imperfections in correlations, gains and losses can occur even for positions that are economically hedged. position limits in trading and inventory accounts are established and monitored on an ongoing basis. each day, consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to various levels of management, which enable management to monitor inventory levels and the results of its trading businesses. trader mandates trading is principally managed through front office trader mandates, where each trader is provided a specific mandate in line with jefferies group's product registry. mandates set out the activities, currencies, countries and products that the desk is permitted to trade in and set the limits applicable to the desk. traders are responsible for knowing their trading limits and trading in a manner consistent with their mandate. trader mandates are reviewed annually and as part of the new business proposal process. value-at-risk value-at-risk ("var") is a statistical estimate of the potential loss from adverse market movements over a specified time horizon within a specified probability (confidence level). it provides a common risk measure across financial instruments, markets and asset classes. within jefferies group, var is used as a measurement of market risk using a model that simulates revenue and loss distributions on its trading portfolios by applying historical market changes to the current portfolio. jefferies group calculates a one-day var using a one year look-back period measured at a 95% confidence level. as with all measures of var, the estimate has inherent limitations due to the assumption that historical changes in market conditions are representative of the future. furthermore, the var model measures the risk of a current static position over a one-day horizon and might not capture the market risk over a longer time horizon where moves may be more extreme. previous changes in market risk factors may not generate accurate predictions of future market movements. while jefferies group believes the assumptions and inputs in its risk model are reasonable, jefferies group could incur losses greater than the reported var. consequently, this var estimate is only one of a number of tools jefferies group uses in its daily risk management activities. the following table illustrates each separate component of var for each component of market risk by interest rate, equity, currency and commodity products, as well as for jefferies group's overall trading positions using the past 365 days of historical data. daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios (in millions) risk categories var at november 30, 2018 daily var for 2018 var at december 31, 2017 daily var for 2017 average high low average high low interest rates $ 5.33 $ 4.88 $ 6.82 $ 2.18 $ 3.38 $ 5.11 $ 9.59 $ 2.63 equity prices 8.47 5.51 13.56 3.08 2.90 5.17 17.20 2.52 currency rates 0.09 0.12 0.24 0.02 0.18 0.22 0.65 0.06 commodity prices 0.48 0.53 1.51 0.24 0.35 0.73 2.20 0.27 diversification effect (2) (3.12 ) (3.48 ) n/a n/a (1.86 ) (3.44 ) n/a n/a firmwide $ 11.25 $ 7.56 $ 14.73 $ 4.76 $ 4.95 $ 7.79 $ 17.55 $ 4.52 (1) for the var numbers reported above, a one-day time horizon, with a one year look-back period, and a 95% confidence level were used. (2) the diversification effect is not applicable for the maximum and minimum var values as the jefferies group's var and var values for the four risk categories might have occurred on different days during the year. 55 the aggregated var presented here is less than the sum of the individual components (i.e., interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk, equity risk and commodity price risk) due to the benefit of diversification among the four risk categories. diversification benefit equals the difference between aggregated var and the sum of vars for the four risk categories and arises because the market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. all amounts reported are for jefferies group's annual fiscal periods. average daily var decreased to $7.56 million for 2018 from $7.79 million for 2017. this change was due to slightly lower interest rate, currency rate, and commodity price risk, partially offset by an increase in equity price risk. equity price risk was higher at november 30, 2018 compared with at december 31, 2017 due to the transfer to jefferies group by jefferies, of capital investments in certain separately managed accounts and funds in the fourth quarter of 2018. jefferies group performs daily back-testing of its var model comparing realized revenue and loss with the previous day's var. back-testing results are included in the quarterly business review pack for its board. the primary method used to test the efficacy of the var model is to compare actual daily net revenue for those positions included in the var calculation with the daily var estimate. this evaluation is performed at various levels of the trading portfolio, from the overall level down to specific business lines. for the var model, trading related revenue is defined as principal transactions revenues, trading related commissions, revenue from securitization activities and net interest income. for a 95% confidence one day var model (i.e., no intra-day trading), assuming current changes in market value are consistent with the historical changes used in the calculation, net trading losses would not be expected to exceed the var estimates more than twelve times on an annual basis (i.e., once in every 20 days). during 2018 , results of the evaluation at the aggregate level demonstrated two days when the net trading loss exceeded the 95% one day var. there were 45 days with trading losses out of a total of 252 trading days in 2018 . other risk measures certain positions within financial instruments are not included in the var model because var is not the most appropriate measure of risk. accordingly, jefferies group's risk management has additional procedures in place to assure that the level of potential loss that would arise from market movements are within acceptable levels. such procedures include performing stress tests, monitoring concentration risk and tracking price target/stop loss levels. the table below presents the potential reduction in net income associated with a 10% stress of the fair value of the positions that are not included in the var model at november 30, 2018 (in thousands): 10% sensitivity private investments $ 20,088 corporate debt securities in default 9,915 trade claims 4,747 var also excludes the impact of changes in jefferies group's own credit spreads on its structured notes for which the fair value option was elected. the estimated credit spread risk sensitivity for each one basis point widening in jefferies group's own credit spreads on financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected was an increase in value of approximately $0.9 million at november 30, 2018 , which is included in accumulated other comprehensive income. stress tests and scenario analysis stress tests are used to analyze the potential impact of specific events or extreme market moves on the current portfolio both firm-wide and within business segments. stress testing is an important part of jefferies group's risk management approach because it allows jefferies group to quantify its exposure to tail risks, highlight potential loss concentrations, undertake risk/reward analysis, set risk controls and overall assess and mitigate its risk. stress scenarios comprise both historical market price and rate changes and hypothetical market environments, and generally involve simultaneous changes of many risk factors. indicative market changes in jefferies group's scenarios include, but are not limited to, a large widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equities markets, significant moves in selected emerging markets, large moves in interest rates and changes in the shape of the yield curve. unlike var, which measures potential losses within a given confidence interval, stress scenarios do not have an associated implied probability. rather, stress testing is used to estimate the potential loss from market moves that tend to be larger than those embedded 56 in the var calculation. stress testing complements var to cover for potential limitations of var such as the breakdown in correlations, non-linear risks, tail risk and extreme events and capturing market moves beyond the confidence levels assumed in the var calculations. stress testing is performed and reported at least weekly as part of jefferies group's risk management process and on an ad hoc basis in response to market events or concerns. current stress tests provide estimated revenue and loss of the current portfolio through a range of both historical and hypothetical events. the stress scenarios are reviewed and assessed at least annually so that they remain relevant and up to date with market developments. additional hypothetical scenarios are also conducted on a sub-portfolio basis to assess the impact of any relevant idiosyncratic stress events as needed. counterparty credit risk and issuer country exposure counterparty credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a counterparty's credit worthiness or its ability or willingness to meet its financial obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions of a financial contract. jefferies group is exposed to credit risk as a trading counterparty to other broker-dealers and customers, as a direct lender and through extending loan commitments, as a holder of securities and as a member of exchanges and clearing organizations. credit exposure exists across a wide-range of products, including cash and cash equivalents, loans, securities finance transactions and otc derivative contracts. the main sources of jefferies group's credit risk are: loans and lending arising in connection with jefferies group's capital markets activities, which reflects its exposure at risk on a default event with no recovery of loans. current exposure represents loans that have been drawn by the borrower and lending commitments that are outstanding. in addition, credit exposures on forward settling traded loans are included within our loans and lending exposures for consistency with the balance sheet categorization of these items. securities and margin financing transactions, which reflect jefferies group's credit exposure arising from reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements to the extent the fair value of the underlying collateral differs from the contractual agreement amount and from margin provided to customers. otc derivatives, which are reported net by counterparty when a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement. otc derivative exposure is based on a contract at fair value, net of cash collateral received or posted under credit support agreements. in addition, credit exposures on forward settling trades are included within jefferies group's derivative credit exposures. cash and cash equivalents, which includes both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposits at banks. credit is extended to counterparties in a controlled manner and in order to generate acceptable returns, whether such credit is granted directly or is incidental to a transaction. all extensions of credit are monitored and managed as a whole to limit exposure to loss related to credit risk. credit risk is managed according to the credit risk policy, which sets out the process for identifying counterparty credit risk, establishing counterparty limits, and managing and monitoring credit limits. the policy includes jefferies group's approach for: client on-boarding and approving counterparty credit limits; negotiating, approving and monitoring credit terms in legal and master documentation; determining the analytical standards and risk parameters for ongoing management and monitoring credit risk books; actively managing daily exposure, exceptions and breaches; and monitoring daily margin call activity and counterparty performance. counterparty credit exposure limits are granted within jefferies group's credit ratings framework, as detailed in the credit risk policy. jefferies group's credit risk department assesses counterparty credit risk and sets credit limits at the counterparty master agreement level. limits must be approved by appropriate credit officers and initiated in jefferies group's credit and trading systems before trading commences. all credit exposures are reviewed against approved limits on a daily basis. current counterparty credit exposures are summarized in the tables below and provided by credit quality, region and industry. credit exposures presented take netting and collateral into consideration by counterparty and master agreement. collateral taken into consideration includes both collateral received as cash as well as collateral received in the form of securities or other arrangements. current exposure is the loss that would be incurred on a particular set of positions in the event of default by the counterparty, assuming no recovery. current exposure equals the fair value of the positions less collateral. issuer risk is the credit risk arising from inventory positions (for example, corporate debt securities and secondary bank loans). issuer risk is included in jefferies group's country risk exposure tables below. of jefferies group's counterparty credit exposure at november 30, 2018 , 57 excluding cash and cash equivalents, the percentage of exposure from investment grade counterparties decreased to 91% from 92% at december 31, 2017 , with a majority concentrated in north america. when comparing jefferies group's credit exposure at november 30, 2018 with credit exposure at december 31, 2017 , excluding cash and cash equivalents, current exposure decreased 19% to approximately $1,093 million from $1,353 million. counterparty credit exposure from otc derivatives decreased 57%, primarily driven by investment grade north american banks and broker-dealers. exposure from securities and margin finance decreased by 8%, while exposure from loans and lending decreased by 5%. the amounts in the tables below are for amounts included in our consolidated statements of financial condition at november 30, 2018 and december 31, 2017 (in millions). counterparty credit exposure by credit rating loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 aaa range $ $ $ 3.2 $ 6.4 $ $ $ 3.2 $ 6.4 $ 2,981.2 $ 2,924.2 $ 2,984.4 $ 2,930.6 aa range 45.1 47.7 45.3 61.3 4.2 3.8 94.6 112.8 111.6 158.6 206.2 271.4 a range 0.3 1.2 573.3 603.0 97.9 260.6 671.5 864.8 1,865.8 1,751.9 2,537.3 2,616.7 bbb range 0.1 0.5 206.6 232.5 15.5 28.5 222.2 261.5 2.3 152.3 224.5 413.8 bb or lower 12.5 5.5 8.1 15.7 16.7 21.2 37.3 107.5 100.6 128.7 137.9 unrated 80.0 70.1 80.0 70.1 77.5 76.9 157.5 147.0 total $ 125.5 $ 132.0 $ 833.9 $ 911.3 $ 133.3 $ 309.6 $ 1,092.7 $ 1,352.9 $ 5,145.9 $ 5,164.5 $ 6,238.6 $ 6,517.4 counterparty credit exposure by region loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 asia/latin america/ other $ $ 3.0 $ 30.2 $ 45.8 $ 0.1 $ 0.3 $ 30.3 $ 49.1 $ 304.0 $ 280.7 $ 334.3 $ 329.8 europe 0.3 1.0 427.0 403.5 27.3 54.0 454.6 458.5 170.8 540.0 625.4 998.5 north america 125.2 128.0 376.7 462.0 105.9 255.3 607.8 845.3 4,671.1 4,343.8 5,278.9 5,189.1 total $ 125.5 $ 132.0 $ 833.9 $ 911.3 $ 133.3 $ 309.6 $ 1,092.7 $ 1,352.9 $ 5,145.9 $ 5,164.5 $ 6,238.6 $ 6,517.4 counterparty credit exposure by industry loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 november 30, 2018 december 31, 2017 asset managers $ $ $ 0.6 $ 15.9 $ $ 7.1 $ 0.6 $ 23.0 $ 2,812.4 $ 2,920.3 $ 2,813.0 $ 2,943.3 banks, broker-dealers 0.4 1.7 619.6 620.8 118.9 282.6 738.9 905.1 2,333.5 2,244.2 3,072.4 3,149.3 commodities corporates 92.9 87.5 7.2 14.7 100.1 102.2 100.1 102.2 other 32.2 42.8 213.7 274.6 7.2 5.2 253.1 322.6 253.1 322.6 total $ 125.5 $ 132.0 $ 833.9 $ 911.3 $ 133.3 $ 309.6 $ 1,092.7 $ 1,352.9 $ 5,145.9 $ 5,164.5 $ 6,238.6 $ 6,517.4 for additional information regarding credit exposure to otc derivative contracts, see note 6 in the consolidated financial statements. jefferies group's country risk exposure country risk is the risk that events or developments that occur in the general environment of a country or countries due to economic, political, social, regulatory, legal or other factors, will affect the ability of obligors of the country to honor their obligations. jefferies group defines the country of risk as the country of jurisdiction or domicile of the obligor, and monitors country risk resulting from both trading positions and counterparty exposure. 58 the following tables reflect jefferies group's top exposures to the sovereign governments, corporations and financial institutions in those non-u.s. countries in which jefferies group has a net long issuer and counterparty exposure, as reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition at november 30, 2018 and december 31, 2017 (in millions): november 30, 2018 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents finland $ 279.8 $ (6.7 ) $ $ $ $ $ 1.0 $ 273.1 $ 274.1 japan 97.7 (92.8 ) 8.0 11.3 136.9 24.2 161.1 italy 1,778.1 (1,267.5 ) (354.5 ) 0.2 0.1 156.4 156.4 united kingdom 311.6 (168.2 ) (30.3 ) 0.3 63.1 18.5 (56.4 ) 195.0 138.6 belgium 65.4 (39.8 ) 2.8 107.3 28.4 135.7 netherlands 317.4 (316.1 ) 70.4 39.5 111.2 111.2 germany 175.4 (384.8 ) 129.4 89.7 1.3 93.3 11.0 104.3 switzerland 100.5 (50.1 ) 5.7 37.7 2.7 3.8 96.5 100.3 hong kong 13.8 (39.7 ) 3.5 0.5 84.9 (21.9 ) 63.0 singapore 21.1 (1.4 ) 1.0 0.1 31.2 20.8 52.0 total $ 3,160.8 $ (2,367.1 ) $ (164.0 ) $ 0.3 $ 242.1 $ 22.6 $ 402.0 $ 894.7 $ 1,296.7 december 31, 2017 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents germany $ 493.3 $ (396.2 ) $ 98.2 $ $ 78.9 $ 2.1 $ 181.9 $ 276.3 $ 458.2 united kingdom 634.6 (394.4 ) (72.1 ) 0.7 97.8 26.9 45.0 293.5 338.5 spain 217.9 (181.3 ) 7.5 151.6 44.1 195.7 japan 100.1 (81.3 ) 4.1 25.8 136.3 48.7 185.0 canada 205.3 (164.7 ) (128.5 ) 17.3 222.8 7.4 152.2 159.6 netherlands 315.9 (210.9 ) 0.9 44.1 2.2 152.2 152.2 switzerland 31.0 (16.9 ) (1.1 ) 54.3 3.3 4.5 70.6 75.1 hong kong 23.0 (25.1 ) 1.0 58.7 (1.1 ) 57.6 australia 50.5 (14.0 ) 0.3 15.0 0.3 4.7 52.1 56.8 singapore 36.0 (4.2 ) 24.7 31.8 56.5 total $ 2,107.6 $ (1,489.0 ) $ (90.7 ) $ 0.7 $ 334.2 $ 257.6 $ 614.8 $ 1,120.4 $ 1,735.2 jefferies group has no material exposure to countries where either sovereign or non-sovereign sectors pose potential default risk as the result of liquidity concerns. other than our trading portfolio, our financial instrument portfolio is primarily classified as available for sale, and consequently, is recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in equity. the available for sale portfolio at november 30, 2018 is comprised of fixed income securities which are primarily rated "investment grade" or are u.s. governmental agency issued or u.s. government-sponsored enterprises. the estimated weighted average remaining life of these fixed income securities was approximately 1.2 years at november 30, 2018 . our fixed income securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. at december 31, 2017 , fixed income securities comprised approximately 88% of the total portfolio and had an estimated weighted average remaining life of approximately 0.5 years. 59 the following table provides information about our financial instruments used for purposes other than trading that are primarily sensitive to changes in interest rates. for additional information see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive assets: available for sale fixed income securities: u.s. government $ 1,072,856 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,072,856 $ 1,072,856 weighted-average interest rate 0.55 % residential mortgage-backed: rated investment grade $ 23,914 $ 20,467 $ 17,692 $ 15,279 $ 13,382 $ 119,784 $ 210,518 $ 210,518 weighted-average interest rate 2.58 % 2.63 % 2.67 % 2.68 % 2.68 % 2.69 % commercial mortgage-backed: rated investment grade $ $ $ $ 10,807 $ 4,835 $ $ 15,642 $ 15,642 weighted-average interest rate 4.52 % 3.52 % other asset-backed: rated investment grade $ 16,337 $ 46,679 $ 24,906 $ 4,194 $ $ $ 92,116 $ 92,116 weighted-average interest rate 4.19 % 4.20 % 3.55 % 3.66 % rated less than investment grade/not rated $ $ 16,680 $ 2,074 $ $ $ $ 18,754 $ 18,754 weighted-average interest rate 5.37 % 6.39 % we are also subject to interest rate risk on our long-term fixed interest rate debt. generally, the fair market value of debt securities with a fixed interest rate will increase as interest rates fall, and the fair market value will decrease as interest rates rise. the following table represents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and the related weighted-average interest rate on those maturities for our consolidated long-term debt obligations. for the variable rate borrowings, the weighted-average interest rates are based on the rates in effect at the reporting date. our market risk with respect to foreign currency exposure on our long-term debt is also shown below. for additional information, see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate borrowings $ 684,528 $ $ 750,000 $ 28,000 $ 1,350,000 $ 3,856,434 $ 6,668,962 $ 6,524,459 weighted-average interest rate 8.49 % 6.88 % 3.05 % 5.49 % 5.34 % variable interest rate borrowings $ $ $ 185,000 $ $ 79,000 $ $ 264,000 $ 262,538 weighted-average interest rate 3.94 % 4.85 % borrowings with foreign currency exposure $ 5,655 $ 565,500 $ $ 4,524 $ $ 161,733 $ 737,412 $ 725,676 weighted-average interest rate 0.68 % 2.38 % 2.25 % 2.95 % item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data . financial statements and supplementary data required by this item 8 are set forth at the pages indicated in item 15(a) below. item 9 . changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure . none. 60 item 9a . controls and procedures . evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures the company's management evaluated, with the participation of the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, the effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "exchange act")), as of november 30, 2018 . based on their evaluation, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of november 30, 2018 . changes in internal control over financial reporting there has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act) that occurred during the company's fiscal quarter ended november 30, 2018 , that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting. management's report on internal control over financial reporting management of the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the exchange act. internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company's management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2018 . in making this assessment, the company's management used the criteria set forth in internal control-integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in 2013. based on our assessment and those criteria, management concluded that, as of november 30, 2018 , the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective. the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2018 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein inquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . the following includes "forward-looking statements" that involve risk and uncertainties. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. the discussion of risk is presented separately for investment banking, capital markets and asset management and the balance of our company. exclusive of investment banking, capital markets and asset management, our market risk arises principally from equity price risk. excluding investment banking, capital markets and asset management, trading assets at fair value include corporate equity securities with an aggregate fair value of $311.8 million at november 30, 2019 . assuming a decline of 10% in market prices, the value of these investments could decrease by approximately $31.2 million. investment banking, capital markets and asset management overview risk is an inherent part of our business and activities. the extent to which we properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risks involved in our activities is critical to our financial soundness, viability and profitability. accordingly, we have a comprehensive risk management approach, with a formal governance structure and processes to identify, assess, monitor and manage risk. principal risks involved in its business activities include market, credit, liquidity and capital, operational, legal and compliance, new business and reputational risk. risk management is a multifaceted process that requires communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. our risk management process encompasses the active involvement of executive and senior management, and also many departments independent of the revenue-producing business units, including jefferies group's risk management, operations, compliance, legal and finance departments. our risk management policies, procedures and methodologies are flexible in nature and are subject to ongoing review and modification. in achieving our strategic business objectives, our risk appetite incorporates keeping our clients' interests at the top of our priority list and ensuring we are in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, as well as adhering to the highest ethical standards. we undertake prudent and conservative risk-taking that protects the capital base and franchise, utilizing risk limits and tolerances that avoid outsized risk-taking. we maintain a diversified business mix and avoid significant concentrations to any sector, product, geography, or activity and sets quantitative concentration limits to manage this risk. we consider contagion, second order effects and correlation in our risk assessment process and actively seeks out value opportunities of all sizes. we manage the risk of opportunities larger than our approved risk levels through risk sharing and risk distribution, sell-down and hedging as appropriate. we have a limited appetite for illiquid assets and complex derivative financial instruments. we maintain the asset quality of our balance sheet through conducting trading activity in liquid markets and generally ensure high turnover of our inventory. we subject less liquid positions and derivative financial instruments to oversight and use a wide variety of specific metrics, limits, and constraints to manage these risks. we protect our reputation and franchise, as well as our standing within the market. we operate a federated approach to risk management with risk oversight responsibilities assigned to those areas of the business that have the appropriate knowledge. for discussion of liquidity and capital risk management, refer to the "liquidity and capital resources" section herein. risk considerations we apply comprehensive framework of limits on a variety of key metrics to constrain the risk profile of our business activities. the size of the limits reflects our risk tolerance for a certain activity under normal business conditions. key metrics included in our risk management framework include inventory position and exposure limits on a gross and net basis, scenario analysis and stress tests, value-at-risk ("var"), sensitivities, exposure concentrations, aged inventory, amount of level 3 assets, counterparty exposure, leverage and cash capital. market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss due to fluctuations in the market value of financial assets and liabilities attributable to changes in market variables. our market risk principally arises from interest rate risk, from exposure to changes in the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates, and credit spreads, and from equity price risks from exposure to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices. in addition, commodity price risk results from exposure to the changes in prices and volatilities 53 of individual commodities, commodity baskets and commodity indices, and foreign exchange risk results from changes in foreign currency rates. market risk is present in our market-making, proprietary trading, underwriting, specialist and investing activities and is principally managed by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes, and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. due to imperfections in correlations, gains and losses can occur even for positions that are economically hedged. position limits in trading and inventory accounts are established and monitored on an ongoing basis. each day, consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to various levels of management, which enable management to monitor inventory levels and the results of its trading businesses. trader mandates trading is principally managed through front office trader mandates, where each trader is provided a specific mandate in line with our product registry. mandates set out the activities, currencies, countries and products that the desk is permitted to trade in and set the limits applicable to the desk. traders are responsible for knowing their trading limits and trading in a manner consistent with their mandate. trader mandates are reviewed annually and as part of the new business proposal process. value-at-risk var is a statistical estimate of the potential loss from adverse market movements over a specified time horizon within a specified probability (confidence level). it provides a common risk measure across financial instruments, markets and asset classes. we estimate var using a model that simulates revenue and loss distributions on its trading portfolios by applying historical market changes to the current portfolio. we calculate a one day var using a one year look-back period measured at a 95% confidence level. as with all measures of var, the estimate has inherent limitations due to the assumption that historical changes in market conditions are representative of the future. furthermore, the var model measures the risk of a current static position over a one day horizon and might not capture the market risk over a longer time horizon where moves may be more extreme. previous changes in market risk factors may not generate accurate predictions of future market movements. while we believe the assumptions and inputs in our risk model are reasonable, we could incur losses greater than the reported var. consequently, this var estimate is only one of a number of tools we use in our daily risk management activities. average daily var increased to $8.79 million for 2019 from $7.56 million for 2018. the increase was primarily due to higher equity price risk, partially offset by lower interest rate volatility and an increase in the diversification benefit. the increase in the average equity price risk was primarily due to the transfer to investment banking, capital markets and asset management by jefferies, in the fourth quarter of 2018, of investments in certain separately managed accounts and funds. the following table illustrates each separate component of var for each component of market risk by interest rate, equity, currency and commodity products, as well as for our overall trading positions using the past 365 days of historical data. daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios daily var (1) value-at-risk in trading portfolios (in millions) risk categories var at november 30, 2019 daily var for 2019 var at november 30, 2018 daily var for 2018 average high low average high low interest rates $ 4.81 $ 4.47 $ 6.22 $ 2.58 $ 5.33 $ 4.88 $ 6.82 $ 2.18 equity prices 5.07 7.94 13.17 4.75 8.47 5.51 13.56 3.08 currency rates 0.32 0.25 1.41 0.06 0.09 0.12 0.24 0.02 commodity prices 0.64 0.89 2.43 0.40 0.48 0.53 1.51 0.24 diversification effect (2) (6.14 ) (4.76 ) n/a n/a (3.12 ) (3.48 ) n/a n/a firmwide $ 4.70 $ 8.79 $ 14.83 $ 4.70 $ 11.25 $ 7.56 $ 14.73 $ 4.76 (1) for the var numbers reported above, a one day time horizon, with a one year look-back period, and a 95% confidence level were used. (2) the diversification effect is not applicable for the maximum and minimum var values as the jefferies group's firmwide var and var values for the four risk categories might have occurred on different days during the year. 54 the aggregated var presented here is less than the sum of the individual components (i.e., interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk, equity risk and commodity price risk) due to the benefit of diversification among the four risk categories. diversification benefit equals the difference between aggregated var and the sum of vars for the four risk categories and arises because the market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. we perform daily back-testing of our var model comparing realized revenue and loss with the previous day's var. back-testing results are included in the quarterly business review pack for jefferies group's board of directors. the primary method used to test the efficacy of the var model is to compare actual daily net revenue for those positions included in the var calculation with the daily var estimate. this evaluation is performed at various levels of the trading portfolio, from the overall level down to specific business lines. for the var model, trading related revenue is defined as principal transactions revenues, trading related commissions, revenue from securitization activities and net interest income. for a 95% confidence one day var model (i.e., no intra-day trading), assuming current changes in market value are consistent with the historical changes used in the calculation, net trading losses would not be expected to exceed the var estimates more than twelve times on an annual basis (i.e., once in every 20 days). during 2019 , results of the evaluation at the aggregate level demonstrated one day when the net trading loss exceeded the 95% one day var. there were 33 days with trading losses out of a total of 250 trading days in 2019 . other risk measures certain positions within financial instruments are not included in the var model because var is not the most appropriate measure of risk. accordingly, risk management has additional procedures in place to assure that the level of potential loss that would arise from market movements are within acceptable levels. such procedures include performing stress tests, monitoring concentration risk and tracking price target/stop loss levels. the table below presents the potential reduction in net income associated with a 10% stress of the fair value of the positions that are not included in the var model at november 30, 2019 (in thousands): 10% sensitivity investment in funds (1) $ 57,031 private investments 24,036 corporate debt securities in default 8,493 trade claims 1,345 (1) includes investments in hedge funds, fund of funds and private equity funds. for additional information on these investments, see note 5 in our consolidated financial statements. var also excludes the impact of changes in our own credit spreads on our structured notes for which the fair value option was elected. the estimated credit spread risk sensitivity for each one basis point widening in our own credit spreads on financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected was an increase in value of approximately $1.5 million at november 30, 2019 , which is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). stress tests and scenario analysis stress tests are used to analyze the potential impact of specific events or extreme market moves on the current portfolio both firm-wide and within business segments. stress testing is an important part of our risk management approach because it allows us to quantify our exposure to tail risks, highlight potential loss concentrations, undertake risk/reward analysis, set risk controls and overall assess and mitigate its risk. we employ a range of stress scenarios, which comprise both historical market price and rate changes and hypothetical market environments, and generally involve simultaneous changes of many risk factors. indicative market changes in our scenarios include, but are not limited to, a large widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equities markets, significant moves in selected emerging markets, large moves in interest rates and changes in the shape of the yield curve. unlike var, which measures potential losses within a given confidence interval, stress scenarios do not have an associated implied probability. rather, stress testing is used to estimate the potential loss from market moves that tend to be larger than those embedded in the var calculation. stress testing complements var to cover for potential limitations of var such as the breakdown in 55 correlations, non-linear risks, tail risk and extreme events and capturing market moves beyond the confidence levels assumed in the var calculations. stress testing is performed and reported at least weekly as part of our risk management process and on an ad hoc basis in response to market events or concerns. current stress tests provide estimated revenue and loss of the current portfolio through a range of both historical and hypothetical events. the stress scenarios are reviewed and assessed at least annually so that they remain relevant and up to date with market developments. additional hypothetical scenarios are also conducted on a sub-portfolio basis to assess the impact of any relevant idiosyncratic stress events as needed. counterparty credit risk and issuer country exposure counterparty credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a counterparty's credit worthiness or its ability or willingness to meet its financial obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions of a financial contract. we are exposed to credit risk as a trading counterparty to other broker-dealers and customers, as a direct lender and through extending loan commitments, as a holder of securities and as a member of exchanges and clearing organizations. credit exposure exists across a wide-range of products, including cash and cash equivalents, loans, securities finance transactions and over-the-counter derivative contracts. the main sources of our credit risk are: loans and lending arising in connection with our investment banking and capital markets activities, which reflects our exposure at risk on a default event with no recovery of loans. current exposure represents loans that have been drawn by the borrower and lending commitments that are outstanding. in addition, credit exposures on forward settling traded loans are included within our loans and lending exposures for consistency with the balance sheet categorization of these items. loans and lending also arise in connection with our portion of a secured revolving credit facility that is with us and massachusetts mutual life insurance company, to be funded equally, to support loan underwritings by jefferies finance. see note 11 for additional information on this facility. in addition, jefferies group has loans outstanding to certain of its officers and employees (none of whom are executive officers or directors). see note 26 for additional information on these employee loans. securities and margin financing transactions, which reflect our credit exposure arising from reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements to the extent the fair value of the underlying collateral differs from the contractual agreement amount and from margin provided to customers. over-the-counter derivatives, which are reported net by counterparty when a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable master netting agreement. over-the-counter derivative exposure is based on a contract at fair value, net of cash collateral received or posted under credit support agreements. in addition, credit exposures on forward settling trades are included within our derivative credit exposures. cash and cash equivalents, which includes both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposits at banks. credit is extended to counterparties in a controlled manner and in order to generate acceptable returns, whether such credit is granted directly or is incidental to a transaction. all extensions of credit are monitored and managed as a whole to limit exposure to loss related to credit risk. credit risk is managed according to the credit risk policy, which sets out the process for identifying counterparty credit risk, establishing counterparty limits, and managing and monitoring credit limits. the policy includes our approach for: client on-boarding and approving counterparty credit limits; negotiating, approving and monitoring credit terms in legal and master documentation; determining the analytical standards and risk parameters for ongoing management and monitoring credit risk books; actively managing daily exposure, exceptions and breaches; and monitoring daily margin call activity and counterparty performance. counterparty credit exposure limits are granted within our credit ratings framework, as detailed in the credit risk policy. jefferies group's credit risk department assesses counterparty credit risk and sets credit limits at the counterparty master agreement level. limits must be approved by appropriate credit officers and initiated in our credit and trading systems before trading commences. all credit exposures are reviewed against approved limits on a daily basis. jefferies group's secured revolving credit facility, which supports loan underwritings by jefferies finance, is governed under separate policies other than the credit risk policy and is approved by jefferies group's board of directors. the loans outstanding to certain of jefferies group's officers and employees are extended pursuant to a review by its most senior management. 56 current counterparty credit exposures are summarized in the tables below and provided by credit quality, region and industry. credit exposures presented take netting and collateral into consideration by counterparty and master agreement. collateral taken into consideration includes both collateral received as cash as well as collateral received in the form of securities or other arrangements. current exposure is the loss that would be incurred on a particular set of positions in the event of default by the counterparty, assuming no recovery. current exposure equals the fair value of the positions less collateral. issuer risk is the credit risk arising from inventory positions (for example, corporate debt securities and secondary bank loans). issuer risk is included in our country risk exposure tables below. the amounts in the tables below are for amounts included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at november 30, 2019 and 2018 (in millions). counterparty credit exposure by credit rating loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 aaa range $ $ $ 1.5 $ 3.2 $ $ $ 1.5 $ 3.2 $ 4,584.1 $ 2,981.2 $ 4,585.6 $ 2,984.4 aa range 45.2 45.1 43.0 45.3 3.7 4.2 91.9 94.6 5.3 111.6 97.2 206.2 a range 1.1 0.3 531.9 573.3 152.4 97.9 685.4 671.5 976.3 1,865.9 1,661.7 2,537.4 bbb range 250.2 250.1 140.9 206.6 48.3 15.5 439.4 472.2 1.6 2.3 441.0 474.5 bb or lower 15.0 6.6 5.5 154.1 15.7 175.7 21.2 107.5 175.7 128.7 unrated 94.2 119.3 6.8 101.0 119.3 0.6 77.4 101.6 196.7 total $ 405.7 $ 414.8 $ 723.9 $ 833.9 $ 365.3 $ 133.3 $ 1,494.9 $ 1,382.0 $ 5,567.9 $ 5,145.9 $ 7,062.8 $ 6,527.9 counterparty credit exposure by region loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 asia/latin america/ other $ 15.0 $ $ 50.5 $ 30.2 $ 0.3 $ 0.1 $ 65.8 $ 30.3 $ 100.4 $ 304.0 $ 166.2 $ 334.3 europe 0.3 324.1 427.0 101.1 27.3 425.2 454.6 74.1 170.8 499.3 625.4 north america 390.7 414.5 349.3 376.7 263.9 105.9 1,003.9 897.1 5,393.4 4,671.1 6,397.3 5,568.2 total $ 405.7 $ 414.8 $ 723.9 $ 833.9 $ 365.3 $ 133.3 $ 1,494.9 $ 1,382.0 $ 5,567.9 $ 5,145.9 $ 7,062.8 $ 6,527.9 counterparty credit exposure by industry loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives total cash and cash equivalents total with cash and cash equivalents at at at at at at november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 november 30, 2019 november 30, 2018 asset managers $ $ $ 1.7 $ 0.6 $ $ $ 1.7 $ 0.6 $ 4,584.1 $ 2,812.4 $ 4,585.8 $ 2,813.0 banks, broker-dealers 250.7 250.4 526.7 619.6 206.8 118.9 984.2 988.9 983.8 2,333.5 1,968.0 3,322.4 corporates 81.3 92.9 154.4 7.2 235.7 100.1 235.7 100.1 other 73.7 71.5 195.5 213.7 4.1 7.2 273.3 292.4 273.3 292.4 total $ 405.7 $ 414.8 $ 723.9 $ 833.9 $ 365.3 $ 133.3 $ 1,494.9 $ 1,382.0 $ 5,567.9 $ 5,145.9 $ 7,062.8 $ 6,527.9 for additional information regarding credit exposure to over-the-counter derivative contracts, see note 6 in the consolidated financial statements. country risk exposure country risk is the risk that events or developments that occur in the general environment of a country or countries due to economic, political, social, regulatory, legal or other factors, will affect the ability of obligors of the country to honor their obligations. we define the country of risk as the country of jurisdiction or domicile of the obligor, and monitors country risk resulting from both trading positions and counterparty exposure. 57 the following tables reflect our top exposures to the sovereign governments, corporations and financial institutions in those non-u.s. countries in which we have a net long issuer and counterparty exposure, as reflected in the consolidated statements of financial condition at november 30, 2019 and 2018 (in millions): november 30, 2019 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents netherlands $ 946.0 $ (329.7 ) $ (100.1 ) $ $ 42.6 $ 0.5 $ $ 559.3 $ 559.3 united kingdom 416.1 (199.9 ) (124.4 ) 60.7 37.6 54.1 190.1 244.2 italy 1,262.3 (1,192.4 ) 105.4 0.4 175.7 175.7 france 423.4 (296.2 ) (93.1 ) 94.2 40.9 169.2 169.2 canada 380.4 (362.2 ) 7.4 0.3 81.2 1.9 107.1 109.0 spain 249.2 (137.3 ) (25.7 ) 3.3 89.5 89.5 japan 76.0 (171.6 ) 133.8 24.7 13.2 62.9 76.1 china 283.3 (236.9 ) 25.6 72.0 72.0 mexico 112.0 (68.3 ) 13.0 56.7 56.7 germany 238.2 (321.3 ) 19.3 88.3 14.4 13.6 38.9 52.5 total $ 4,386.9 $ (3,315.8 ) $ (38.8 ) $ $ 314.1 $ 175.0 $ 82.8 $ 1,521.4 $ 1,604.2 november 30, 2018 issuer risk counterparty risk issuer and counterparty risk fair value of long debt securities fair value of short debt securities net derivative notional exposure loans and lending securities and margin finance otc derivatives cash and cash equivalents excluding cash and cash equivalents including cash and cash equivalents finland $ 279.8 $ (6.7 ) $ $ $ $ $ 1.0 $ 273.1 $ 274.1 japan 97.7 (92.8 ) 8.0 11.3 136.9 24.2 161.1 italy 1,778.1 (1,267.5 ) (354.5 ) 0.2 0.1 156.4 156.4 united kingdom 311.6 (168.2 ) (30.3 ) 0.3 63.1 18.5 (56.4 ) 195.0 138.6 belgium 65.4 (39.8 ) 2.8 107.3 28.4 135.7 netherlands 317.4 (316.1 ) 70.4 39.5 111.2 111.2 germany 175.4 (384.8 ) 129.4 89.7 1.3 93.3 11.0 104.3 switzerland 100.5 (50.1 ) 5.7 37.7 2.7 3.8 96.5 100.3 hong kong 13.8 (39.7 ) 3.5 0.5 84.9 (21.9 ) 63.0 singapore 21.1 (1.4 ) 1.0 0.1 31.2 20.8 52.0 total $ 3,160.8 $ (2,367.1 ) $ (164.0 ) $ 0.3 $ 242.1 $ 22.6 $ 402.0 $ 894.7 $ 1,296.7 we have no material exposure to countries where either sovereign or non-sovereign sectors pose potential default risk as the result of liquidity concerns. operational risk operational risk refers to the risk of loss resulting from operations, including, but not limited to, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in operating systems, business disruptions and inadequacies or breaches in internal control processes. our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. in addition, the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. if our financial, accounting or other data processing systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in its internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer an impairment to its liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of its businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. 58 these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or the inability to occupy one or more of its buildings. the inability of its systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain its ability to expand its businesses. we also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and manage exposure to risk. in addition, despite the contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which they are located. this may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. our operational risk framework includes governance, collection of operational risk incidents, proactive operational risk management, and periodic review and analysis of business metrics to identify and recommend controls and process-related enhancements. each revenue producing and support department is responsible for the management and reporting of operational risks and the implementation of the operational risk policy and processes within the department. operational risk policy, framework, infrastructure, methodology, processes, guidance and oversight of the operational risk processes are centralized and consistent firm wide and also subject to regional operational risk governance. model risk model risk refers to the risk of losses resulting from decisions that are based on the output of models, due to errors or weaknesses in the design and development, implementation, or improper use of models. we use quantitative models primarily to value certain financial assets and liabilities and to monitor and manage our risk. model risk is a function of the model materiality, frequency of use, complexity and uncertainty around inputs and assumptions used in a given model. robust model risk management is a core part of our risk management approach and is overseen through our risk governance structure and risk management controls. legal and compliance risk legal and compliance risk includes the risk of noncompliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. we have various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of customer funds, credit granting, collection activities, anti-money laundering and record keeping. these risks also reflect the potential impact that changes in local and international laws and tax statutes have on the economics and viability of current or future transactions. in an effort to mitigate these risks, we continuously review new and pending regulations and legislation and participates in various industry interest groups. we also maintain an anonymous hotline for employees or others to report suspected inappropriate actions by us or by our employees or agents. new business risk new business risk refers to the risks of entering into a new line of business or offering a new product. by entering a new line of business or offering a new product, we may face risks that we are unaccustomed to dealing with and may increase the magnitude of the risks we currently face. the new business committee reviews proposals for new businesses and new products to determine if we are prepared to handle the additional or increased risks associated with entering into such activities. reputational risk we recognize that maintaining our reputation among clients, investors, regulators and the general public is an important aspect of minimizing legal and operational risks. maintaining our reputation depends on a large number of factors, including the selection of our clients and the conduct of our business activities. we seek to maintain our reputation by screening potential clients and by 59 conducting our business activities in accordance with high ethical standards. our reputation and business activity can be affected by statements and actions of third parties, even false or misleading statements by them. we actively monitor public comment concerning us and are vigilant in seeking to assure accurate information and perception prevails. other risk we are also subject to interest rate risk on our long-term fixed interest rate debt. generally, the fair market value of debt securities with a fixed interest rate will increase as interest rates fall, and the fair market value will decrease as interest rates rise. the following table represents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and the related weighted-average interest rate on those maturities for our consolidated long-term debt obligations. for the variable rate borrowings, the weighted-average interest rates are based on the rates in effect at the reporting date. our market risk with respect to foreign currency exposure on our long-term debt is also shown below. for additional information, see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. expected maturity date 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate borrowings $ 276 $ 750,000 $ 28,000 $ 1,350,000 $ 127,000 $ 4,093,103 $ 6,348,379 $ 6,839,180 weighted-average interest rate 7.40 % 6.88 % 3.05 % 5.49 % 0.32 % 5.19 % variable interest rate borrowings $ $ 338,671 $ $ 104,000 $ $ $ 442,671 $ 441,759 weighted-average interest rate % 3.32 % % 4.45 % % % borrowings with foreign currency exposure $ 550,875 $ $ 4,407 $ $ 550,875 $ 434,090 $ 1,540,247 $ 1,504,183 weighted-average interest rate 2.38 % % 2.25 % % 1.00 % 2.91 % item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data . financial statements and supplementary data required by this item 8 are set forth at the pages indicated in item 15(a) below. item 9 . changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure . none. item 9a . controls and procedures . evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures the company's management evaluated, with the participation of the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, the effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the "exchange act")), as of november 30, 2019 . based on their evaluation, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of november 30, 2019 . changes in internal control over financial reporting there has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act) that occurred during the company's fiscal quarter ended november 30, 2019 , that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting. management's report on internal control over financial reporting management of the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the exchange act. internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: 60 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company's management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2019 . in making this assessment, the company's management used the criteria set forth in internal control-integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in 2013. based on our assessment and those criteria, management concluded that, as of november 30, 2019 , the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective. the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of november 30, 2019 has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein in