risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2012 , and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: we are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large retailers operating in the united states. our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores and distribution centers. these risk factors include: an increase in the level of competitive pressures in the apparel or home-related merchandise retailing industry. changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise. the impacts from the macro-economic environment and financial and credit markets that affect consumer disposable income and consumer confidence, including but not limited to interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, energy costs, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, and fluctuating commodity costs. changes in geopolitical and geoeconomic conditions. unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. changes in the availability, quantity, or quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. potential disruptions in the supply chain or in information systems that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. a change in the availability, quality, or cost of new store real estate locations. a downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a distribution center. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, two distribution centers, one warehouse, and 25% of our stores are located in california. we are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies. the continued success of our business depends in part upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, to open new stores, and to operate stores on a profitable basis. our existing strategies and store and distribution center expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue or profit growth. in executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve efficiencies, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including our ability to: attract and retain personnel with the retail talent necessary to execute our strategies. effectively operate and continually upgrade our various supply chain, store, core merchandising, and other information systems. improve our merchandising and transaction processing capabilities through implementation of new processes and systems enhancements. 7 manage our planned data center and headquarters moves without disruption or unanticipated cost. improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. add capacity to our existing distribution centers, find new distribution center sites, and build out planned additional distribution centers timely and cost effectively. achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our existing and future new distribution centers. lease or acquire acceptable new store sites with favorable demographics and long-term financial returns. identify and successfully enter new geographic markets. achieve planned gross margins by effectively managing inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. effectively manage all operating costs of the business, the largest of which are payroll and benefit costs for store and distribution center employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of february 2, 2013 . interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of february 2, 2013 , we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. in addition, lease payments under certain of our synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, we have two outstanding series of unsecured notes held by institutional investors: series a for $85 million accrues interest at 6.38% and series b for $65 million accrues interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of february 2, 2013 was $150 million. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended february 2, 2013 . we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 24risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2013 , and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: we are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large retailers operating in the united states. our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores and distribution centers. these risk factors include: an increase in the level of competitive pressures in the apparel or home-related merchandise retailing industry. changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise. the impacts from the macro-economic environment and financial and credit markets that affect consumer disposable income and consumer confidence, including but not limited to interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, energy costs, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, and fluctuating commodity costs. changes in geopolitical and geoeconomic conditions. unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. changes in the availability, quantity, or quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. potential disruptions in the supply chain or in information systems that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. a change in the availability, quality, or cost of new store real estate locations. a downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a distribution center. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, two distribution centers, one warehouse, and 25% of our stores are located in california. we are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies. the continued success of our business depends in part upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, to open new stores, and to operate stores on a profitable basis. our existing strategies and store and distribution center expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue or profit growth. in executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve efficiencies, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including our ability to: attract, train, and retain associates with the retail talent necessary to execute our strategies. effectively operate and continually upgrade our various supply chain, store, core merchandising, and other information systems. improve our merchandising and transaction processing capabilities, and the reliability and security of our data communication systems, through implementation of new processes and systems enhancements. 6 protect against security breaches, including cyber-attacks on our transaction processing and computer information systems, that could result in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, credit card, employee or other private and valuable information that we collect and process in the ordinary course of our business, and avoid resulting damage to our reputation, loss of customer confidence, exposure to litigation and regulatory action, unanticipated costs and disruption of our operations. improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. add capacity to our existing distribution centers, find new distribution center sites, and build out planned additional distribution centers timely and cost effectively. achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our existing and future distribution centers. lease or acquire acceptable new store sites with favorable demographics and long-term financial returns. identify and successfully enter new geographic markets. achieve planned gross margins by effectively managing inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. effectively manage all operating costs of the business, the largest of which are payroll and benefit costs for store and distribution center employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of february 1, 2014 . interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of february 1, 2014 , we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. in addition, we have two outstanding series of unsecured notes held by institutional investors: series a for $85 million accrues interest at 6.38% and series b for $65 million accrues interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of february 1, 2014 was $150 million. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended february 1, 2014 . we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 24risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2014 , and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected growth, financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: we are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large retailers operating in the united states. our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores and distribution centers. these risk factors include: an increase in the level of competitive pressures in the apparel or home-related merchandise retailing industry. changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise. the impacts from the macro-economic environment and financial and credit markets that affect consumer disposable income and consumer confidence, including but not limited to interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, energy costs, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, and fluctuating commodity costs. changes in geopolitical and geoeconomic conditions. unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. changes in the availability, quantity, or quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. potential disruptions in the supply chain or in information systems that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. a change in the availability, quality, or cost of new store real estate locations. a downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a distribution center. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, two operating distribution centers, two warehouses, and 25% of our stores are located in california. we are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies. the continued success of our business depends in part upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, to open new stores, and to operate stores on a profitable basis. our existing strategies and store and distribution center expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue or profit growth. in executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve efficiencies, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including our ability to: attract, train, and retain associates with the retail talent necessary to execute our strategies. effectively operate and continually upgrade our various supply chain, store, core merchandising, and other information systems. improve our merchandising and transaction processing capabilities, and the reliability and security of our data communication systems, through implementation of new processes and systems enhancements. protect against security breaches, including cyber-attacks on our transaction processing and computer information systems, that could result in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, credit card, employee or other private and valuable information that we collect and process in the ordinary course of our business, and avoid resulting damage to our reputation, loss of customer confidence, exposure to litigation and regulatory action, unanticipated costs and disruption of our operations. improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. add capacity to our existing distribution centers, find new distribution center sites, and build out planned additional distribution centers timely and cost effectively. 6 achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our existing and new distribution centers. lease or acquire acceptable new store sites with favorable demographics and long-term financial returns. identify and successfully enter new geographic markets. achieve planned gross margins by effectively managing inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. effectively manage all operating costs of the business, the largest of which are payroll and benefit costs for store and distribution center employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of january 31, 2015 . interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 31, 2015 , we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. we have two outstanding series of unsecured notes held by institutional investors: series a senior notes due december 2018 for $85 million accrues interest at 6.38% and series b senior notes due december 2021 for $65 million accrues interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of january 31, 2015 was $150 million. we also have unsecured 3.375% senior notes due september 2024 with an aggregate principal amount of $250 million. interest that is payable on our senior notes is based on fixed interest rates and is therefore, unaffected by changes in market interest rates. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended january 31, 2015 . we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 24risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2015 , and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected growth, financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: competitive pressures in the apparel and home-related merchandise retailing industry are high. the retail industry is highly competitive and the marketplace is highly fragmented, as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store formats and merchandising strategies. we expect competition to increase in the future. there are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector. we compete with many other local, regional, and national retailers, traditional department stores, upscale mass merchandisers, other off-price retailers, specialty stores, internet and catalog businesses, and other forms of retail commerce, for customers, associates, store locations, and merchandise. our retail competitors constantly adjust their pricing, business strategies and promotional activity (particularly during holiday periods) in response to changing conditions. the substantial sales growth in the e-commerce industry within the last decade has also encouraged the entry of many new competitors, new business models, and an increase in competition from established companies looking for ways to create successful online off-price shopping alternatives. intense pressures from our competitors, our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape, or a failure to effectively execute our off-price model, could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. unexpected changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel and home-related merchandise. our success depends on our ability to effectively buy and resell merchandise that meets customer demand. we work on an ongoing basis to identify customer trends and preferences, and to obtain merchandise inventory to meet anticipated customer needs. it is very challenging to successfully do this well and consistently across our diverse merchandise categories and in the multiple markets in which we operate throughout the united states. although our off-price business model provides us certain advantages and could allow us greater flexibility than traditional retailers in adjusting our merchandise mix to ever-changing consumer tastes, our merchandising decisions may still fail to correctly anticipate and match consumer trends and preferences, particularly in our newer geographic markets. failure to correctly anticipate and match the trends, preferences, and demands of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. unseasonable weather may affect shopping patterns and consumer demand for seasonal apparel and other merchandise. unseasonable weather and prolonged, extreme temperatures, and events such as storms, affect consumers' buying patterns and willingness to shop, and could adversely affect the demand for merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. among other things, weather conditions may also affect our ability to deliver our products to our stores or require us to close certain stores temporarily, thereby reducing store traffic. even if stores are not closed, many customers may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. as a result, unseasonable weather in any of our markets could lead to disappointing sales and increase our markdowns, which may negatively affect our sales and margins. 6 we are subject to impacts from the macro-economic environment, financial and credit markets, and geopolitical conditions that affect consumer confidence and consumer disposable income. consumer spending habits for the merchandise we sell are affected by many factors, including prevailing economic conditions, recession and fears of recession, levels of unemployment, salaries and wage rates, housing costs, energy and fuel costs, income tax rates and the timing of tax refunds, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, availability of consumer credit, consumer debt levels, and consumers' disposable income. adverse developments in any of these areas could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. all of our stores are located in the united states, so we are especially susceptible to changes in the u.s. economy. in order to achieve our planned gross margins, we must effectively manage our inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. we purchase the majority of our inventory based on our sales plans. if our sales plans significantly differ from actual demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, resulting in decreased profit margins. we also may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales opportunities. as a regular part of our business, we purchase packaway inventory with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date. the timing of the release of packaway inventory to our stores varies by merchandise category and by season, but it typically remains in storage less than six months. packaway inventory is frequently a significant portion of our overall inventory. if we make packaway purchases that do not meet consumer preferences at the later time of release to our stores, we could have significant inventory markdowns. changes in packaway inventory levels could impact our operating cash flow. although we have various systems to help protect against loss or theft of our inventory, both when in storage and once distributed to our stores, we may have damaged, lost, or stolen inventory (called shortage ) in higher amounts than we forecast, which would result in write-offs, lost sales, and reduced margins. we depend on the market availability, quantity, and quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts, and on the ability of our buyers to purchase merchandise to enable us to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. opportunistic buying, lean inventory levels, and frequent inventory turns are critical elements of our off-price business strategy. and maintaining an overall pricing differential to department and specialty stores is key to our ability to attract customers and sustain our sales and gross margins. our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion on our merchants, who are in the marketplace continually and who are generally purchasing merchandise for the current or upcoming season. our ability to meet or exceed our operating performance targets depends upon the continuous, sufficient availability of high quality merchandise that we can acquire at prices sufficiently below those paid by conventional retailers and that represent a value to our customers. to the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. shortages or disruptions in the availability to us of high quality merchandise would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and margins. data security breaches, including cyber-attacks on our transaction processing and computer information systems, could result in theft or unauthorized disclosure of customer, credit card, employee, or other private and valuable information that we handle in the ordinary course of our business. like other large retailers, we rely on commercially available computer and telecommunications systems to process, transmit, and store payment card and other personal and confidential information, and to provide data security for those transactions. some of the key information systems and processes we use to handle payment card transactions and check approvals, and the levels of security technology utilized in payment cards, are controlled by the banking and payment card industry, not by us. cyber criminals may attempt to penetrate our information systems to misappropriate customer or business information, including but not limited to credit/debit card, personnel, or trade information. despite security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems (or those of third-party service providers) may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. it is also possible that an associate within our company or a third party we do business with may purposefully or inadvertently cause a security breach involving such information. the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and advances in computer capabilities and remote access increases these risks. a breach of our data security, or our failure or delay in detecting and mitigating a loss of personal or business information, could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customer confidence, violation (or alleged violation) of applicable laws, and expose us to civil claims, litigation, and regulatory action and to unanticipated costs and disruption of our operations. 7 disruptions in our supply chain or in our information systems could impact our ability to process sales and to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. various information systems are critical to our ability to operate and to manage key aspects of our business. we depend on the integrity and consistent operations of these systems to process transactions in our stores, track inventory flow, manage merchandise allocation and distribution logistics, generate performance and financial reports, and support merchandising decisions. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to improve or replace information processes and systems that are key to managing our business. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. the risk of system disruption is increased whenever significant system changes are undertaken. excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from new technology. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could damage our competitive position and adversely impact our business and results of operations. additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology system changes could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, floods, acts of terrorism, and design or usage errors by our employees or by third parties. if our information systems or our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. a disruption within our logistics or supply chain network could adversely affect our ability to timely and efficiently transport merchandise to our stores or our distribution centers, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales or increased supply chain costs. such disruptions may result from: damage or destruction to our distribution centers; weather-related events; natural disasters; trade restrictions; tariffs; third-party strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns; shipping capacity constraints; supply or shipping interruptions or costs; or other factors beyond our control. any such disruptions could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition. we need to obtain acceptable new store sites with favorable consumer demographics to achieve our planned growth. successful growth requires us to find appropriate real estate sites in our targeted market areas. we compete with other retailers and businesses for acceptable store locations. for the purpose of identifying locations we rely, in part, on consumer demographics. while we believe consumer demographics are helpful indicators of acceptable store locations, we recognize that this information cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. time frames for negotiations and store development vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays or unexpected cancellations. we may not be able to open new stores or, if opened, operate those stores profitably. construction and other delays in store openings could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. additionally, we may not be able to renegotiate our current lease terms which could negatively impact our operating results. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect the sales and profitability of other existing stores. if we cannot acquire sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to grow or adversely affect the economics of our new stores in various markets. to achieve growth, we need to expand in existing markets and enter new geographic markets. our growth strategy is based on successfully expanding our off-price model in current markets and in new geographic regions. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand our current business and to enter new markets. stores we open in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher construction, occupancy, advertising, or operating costs than stores we open in existing markets, thereby affecting our overall profitability. new markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may require us to build brand awareness in that 8 market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. we may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate, and retain qualified associates. consumer problems or legal issues involving the quality, safety, or authenticity of products we sell. various governmental authorities regulate the quality and safety of merchandise we sell. these laws and regulations frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. because of our opportunistic buying strategy, we sometimes obtain merchandise in new categories or from new vendors that we have not dealt with before. although our vendor arrangements typically place contractual responsibility on the vendor for resulting liability and we generally rely on our vendors to provide authentic merchandise that matches the stated quality attributes and complies with applicable product safety and other laws, vendor non-compliance with consumer product safety laws may subject us to product recalls, make certain products unsalable, or require us to incur significant compliance costs. but regardless of fault, any real or perceived issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly products such as food and children's items, issues with the authenticity of merchandise, or our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulatory requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, result in lost sales, inventory write-offs, uninsured product liability or other legal claims, penalties or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs. an adverse outcome in various legal, regulatory, or tax matters could increase our costs. as an ordinary part of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, tax audits, or other legal matters. these may include lawsuits, inquiries, demands, and other claims or proceedings by governmental entities and private plaintiffs, including those relating to employment and employee benefits (including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour, and retaliation), securities, real estate, tort, consumer protection, privacy, product compliance and safety, advertising, comparative pricing, intellectual property, tax, escheat, and whistle-blower claims. we continue to be involved in a number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions in california. we are subject to federal, state, and local rules and regulations in the united states, and to various international laws, which change from time to time. these legal requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of health care, workforce management and employee benefits, minimum wages, advertising, comparative pricing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection, intellectual property, and others. if we fail to comply (or are alleged not to comply) with any of these requirements, we may be subject to fines, settlements, penalties, or other costs. we are also subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, and local tax authorities, and these examining authorities may challenge positions we take. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for both legal claims and for taxes. actual results may differ and our costs may exceed the reserves we establish in estimating the probable outcomes. in addition, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and those changes could have material effects on our reported operating results and financial condition. damage to our corporate reputation or brands could adversely affect our sales and operating results. our reputation is partially based on perceptions of various subjective qualities and overall integrity. any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public could adversely affect our reputation and business, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. the use of social media platforms and similar devices, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, continues to increase. the availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate as is its impact. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. the opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate information, is seemingly limitless and readily available. information concerning our company may be posted on such platforms at any time. information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, each of which could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity, and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified associates. the harm may be immediate, without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we must continually attract, train, and retain associates with the retail talent necessary to execute our off-price retail strategies. like other retailers, we face challenges in recruiting and retaining sufficient talent in our buying organization, management, and other key areas. many of our retail store associates are in entry level or part-time positions with 9 historically high rates of turnover. our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs, as well as the impact of legislation or regulations governing minimum wage or healthcare benefits. any increase in labor costs may adversely impact our profitability or, if we fail to pay such higher wages, may result in increased turnover. excessive turnover may result in higher costs associated with finding, hiring and training new associates. if we cannot hire enough qualified associates, or if there is a disruption in the supply of personnel we hire from third-party providers, especially during our peak season, our operations could be negatively impacted. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must also attract, train, and retain our key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor for a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operations, and financial position. we must effectively advertise and market our business. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising and marketing activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands, and the location of our stores. although we use marketing and advertising programs to attract customers to our stores, particularly though television, our competitors may spend more or use different approaches, which could prove to provide them with a competitive advantage. our advertising and other promotional programs may not be effective or may be perceived negatively, or could require increased expenditures, which could adversely affect sales or increase costs. we are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from other countries. a portion of the products sold in our stores is sourced from foreign vendors predominantly in asia (including china). we also buy product from foreign sources indirectly through domestic vendors. although our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in u.s. dollars, decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. to the extent that our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, war, and acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. the flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured, if the instability affects the production or export of merchandise from those countries. trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. when we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those applicable to a manufacturer. these risks and uncertainties include import duties and quotas, compliance with anti-dumping regulations, work stoppages, economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation and recession), foreign government regulations, employment and labor matters, concerns relating to human rights, working conditions, and other issues in factories or countries where merchandise is produced, transparent sourcing and supply chains, exposure for product warranty and intellectual property issues, consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise, wars and fears of war, political unrest, natural disasters, regulations to address climate change, and other trade restrictions. we cannot predict whether any of the countries from which our products are sourced, or in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. or foreign governments or the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. we require our vendors to adhere to various conduct, compliance, and other requirements including those relating to environmental, employment and labor, health, safety, and anti-bribery standards. from time to time, our vendors, their contractors, or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to claims and liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 we may experience volatility in revenues and earnings. our business has slower and busier periods based on holiday and back-to-school seasons, weather, and other factors. although our off-price business is historically subject to less seasonality than traditional retailers, we may still experience unexpected decreases in sales from time to time, which could result in increased markdowns and reduced margins. significant operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not adjust proportionately with our sales. if sales in a certain period are lower than our plans, we are generally not able to adjust these operating expenses concurrently, which may impact our operating results. a natural or man-made disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores, offices, or a distribution center could harm our business. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, three operating distribution centers, two warehouses, and approximately 24% of our stores are located in california. natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, or other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism, or public health issues (such as epidemics), in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or our supply chain, or could shut down, damage, or destroy our stores or distribution facilities. to support our continuing operations, our new store and distribution center growth plans, and our stock repurchase program and quarterly dividends, we must maintain sufficient liquidity. we depend upon our operations to generate strong cash flows to support our general operating activities, and to supply capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels, and return value to our stockholders through dividends and stock repurchases. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to support these activities, our growth plans and our financial performance would be adversely affected. if necessary to support our operations, we could be forced to suspend our stock repurchase program and/or discontinue payment of our quarterly cash dividends. any failure to pay dividends or repurchase stock, after we have announced our intention to do so, may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us, and may negatively impact our stock price. we have borrowed on occasion to finance some of our activities. if our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. in addition, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows, and returns to stockholders could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of january 30, 2016 . interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 30, 2016 , we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. we have two outstanding series of unsecured notes held by institutional investors: series a senior notes due december 2018 for $85 million accrue interest at 6.38% and series b senior notes due december 2021 for $65 million accrue interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of january 30, 2016 was $150 million. we also have unsecured 3.375% senior notes due september 2024 with an aggregate principal amount of $250 million. interest that is payable on our senior notes is based on fixed interest rates and is therefore unaffected by changes in market interest rates. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended january 30, 2016 . we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 28risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2016 , and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected growth, financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: competitive pressures in the apparel and home-related merchandise retailing industry are high. the retail industry is highly competitive and the marketplace is highly fragmented, as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store and online formats and merchandising strategies. we expect competition to increase in the future. there are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector. we compete with many other local, regional, and national retailers, traditional department stores, upscale mass merchandisers, other off-price retailers, specialty stores, internet and catalog businesses, and other forms of retail commerce, for customers, associates, store locations, and merchandise. our retail competitors constantly adjust their pricing, business strategies and promotional activity (particularly during holiday periods) in response to changing market conditions or their own financial condition. the substantial sales growth in the e-commerce industry within the last decade has also encouraged the entry of many new competitors, new business models, and an increase in competition from established companies looking for ways to create successful online off-price shopping alternatives. intense pressures from our competitors, our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape, or a failure to effectively execute our off-price model, could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. unexpected changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel and home-related merchandise could adversely affect us. our success depends on our ability to effectively buy and resell merchandise that meets customer demand. we work on an ongoing basis to identify customer trends and preferences, and to obtain merchandise inventory to meet anticipated customer needs. it is very challenging to successfully do this well and consistently across our diverse merchandise categories and in the multiple markets in which we operate throughout the united states. although our off-price business model provides us certain advantages and could allow us greater flexibility than traditional retailers in adjusting our merchandise mix to ever-changing consumer tastes, our merchandising decisions may still fail to correctly anticipate and match consumer trends and preferences, particularly in our newer geographic markets. failure to correctly anticipate and match the trends, preferences, and demands of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. unseasonable weather may affect shopping patterns and consumer demand for seasonal apparel and other merchandise. unseasonable weather and prolonged, extreme temperatures, and events such as storms, affect consumers' buying patterns and willingness to shop, and could adversely affect the demand for merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. among other things, weather conditions may also affect our ability to deliver our products to our stores or require us to close certain stores temporarily, thereby reducing store traffic. even if stores are not closed, many customers may be unable to go, or may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. as a result, unseasonable weather in any of our markets could lead to disappointing sales and increase our markdowns, which may negatively affect our sales and margins. 6 we are subject to impacts from the macro-economic environment, financial and credit markets, and geopolitical conditions that affect consumer confidence and consumer disposable income. consumer spending habits for the merchandise we sell are affected by many factors, including prevailing economic conditions, recession and fears of recession, levels of unemployment, salaries and wage rates, housing costs, energy and fuel costs, income tax rates and the timing of tax refunds, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, availability of consumer credit, consumer debt levels, and consumers' disposable income. adverse developments in any of these areas could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. all of our stores are located in the united states and its territories, so we are especially susceptible to changes in the u.s. economy. in order to achieve our planned gross margins, we must effectively manage our inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. we purchase the majority of our inventory based on our sales plans. if our sales plans significantly differ from actual demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, resulting in decreased profit margins. we also may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales opportunities. as a regular part of our business, we purchase packaway inventory with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date. the timing of the release of packaway inventory to our stores varies by merchandise category and by season, but it typically remains in storage less than six months. packaway inventory is frequently a significant portion of our overall inventory. if we make packaway purchases that do not meet consumer preferences at the later time of release to our stores, we could have significant inventory markdowns. changes in packaway inventory levels could impact our operating cash flow. although we have various systems to help protect against loss or theft of our inventory, both when in storage and once distributed to our stores, we may have damaged, lost, or stolen inventory (called shortage ) in higher amounts than we forecast, which would result in write-offs, lost sales, and reduced margins. we depend on the market availability, quantity, and quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts, and on the ability of our buyers to purchase merchandise to enable us to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. opportunistic buying, lean inventory levels, and frequent inventory turns are critical elements of our off-price business strategy. and maintaining an overall pricing differential to department and specialty stores is key to our ability to attract customers and sustain our sales and gross margins. our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion on our merchants, who are in the marketplace continually and who are generally purchasing merchandise for the current or upcoming season. our ability to meet or exceed our operating performance targets depends upon the continuous, sufficient availability of high quality merchandise that we can acquire at prices sufficiently below those paid by conventional retailers and that represent a value to our customers. to the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. to the extent that certain of our vendors decide not to sell to us or go out of business, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could also be materially reduced. because a significant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell is originally manufactured in other countries, changes in u.s. tariffs, trade relationships, or tax policies that reduce the supply or increase the relative cost of imported goods, could also result in disruptions to our existing supply relationships. shortages or disruptions in the availability to us of high quality merchandise would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and margins. information or data security breaches, including cyber-attacks on our transaction processing and computer information systems, could result in theft or unauthorized disclosure of customer, credit card, employee, or other private and valuable information that we handle in the ordinary course of our business. like other large retailers, we rely on commercially available computer and telecommunications systems to process, transmit, and store payment card and other personal and confidential information, and to provide information or data security for those transactions. some of the key information systems and processes we use to handle payment card transactions and check approvals, and the levels of security technology utilized in payment cards, are controlled by the banking and payment card industry, not by us. cyber criminals may attempt to penetrate our information systems to misappropriate customer or business information, including but not limited to credit/debit card, personnel, or trade information. despite security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems (or those of third-party service providers we utilize or connect to) may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, phishing and similar fraudulent attacks, or other similar events. it is also possible that an associate within our company or a third party we do business with may purposefully or inadvertently cause a security breach involving such information. the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals 7 and advances in computer capabilities and remote access increases these risks. a breach of our information or data security, or our failure or delay in detecting and mitigating a loss of personal or business information, could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customer confidence, violation (or alleged violation) of applicable laws, and expose us to civil claims, litigation, and regulatory action and to unanticipated costs and disruption of our operations. disruptions in our supply chain or in our information systems could impact our ability to process sales and to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. various information systems are critical to our ability to operate and to manage key aspects of our business. we depend on the integrity and consistent operations of these systems to process transactions in our stores, track inventory flow, manage merchandise allocation and distribution logistics, generate performance and financial reports, and support merchandising decisions. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to improve or replace information processes and systems that are key to managing our business. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. the risk of system disruption is increased whenever significant system changes are undertaken. excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from new technology. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could damage our competitive position and adversely impact our business and results of operations. additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology system changes could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, floods, acts of terrorism, and design or usage errors by our employees or by third parties. if our information systems or our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. a disruption within our logistics or supply chain network could adversely affect our ability to timely and efficiently transport merchandise to our stores or our distribution centers, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales or increased supply chain costs. such disruptions may result from: damage or destruction to our distribution centers; weather-related events; natural disasters; trade restrictions; tariffs; third-party strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns; shipping capacity constraints; supply or shipping interruptions or costs; or other factors beyond our control. any such disruptions could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition. we need to obtain acceptable new store sites with favorable consumer demographics to achieve our planned growth. successful growth requires us to find appropriate real estate sites in our targeted market areas. we compete with other retailers and businesses for acceptable store locations. for the purpose of identifying locations we rely, in part, on consumer demographics. while we believe consumer demographics are helpful indicators of acceptable store locations, we recognize that this information cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. time frames for negotiations and store development vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays or unexpected cancellations. we may not be able to open new stores or, if opened, operate those stores profitably. construction and other delays in store openings could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. additionally, we may not be able to renegotiate our current lease terms which could negatively impact our operating results. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect the sales and profitability of other existing stores. if we cannot acquire sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to grow or adversely affect the economics of our new stores in various markets. to achieve growth, we need to expand in existing markets and enter new geographic markets. our growth strategy is based on successfully expanding our off-price model in current markets and in new geographic regions. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand our current business and to enter new markets. stores we open in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher construction, occupancy, advertising, or operating costs than stores we open in existing markets, thereby affecting our overall profitability. new markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes 8 and discretionary spending patterns that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may require us to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. we may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate, and retain qualified associates. consumer problems or legal issues involving the quality, safety, or authenticity of products we sell could harm our reputation, result in lost sales, and/or increase our costs. various governmental authorities regulate the quality and safety of merchandise we sell. these laws and regulations frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. because of our opportunistic buying strategy, we sometimes obtain merchandise in new categories or from new vendors that we have not dealt with before. although our vendor arrangements typically place contractual responsibility on the vendor for resulting liability and we generally rely on our vendors to provide authentic merchandise that matches the stated quality attributes and complies with applicable product safety and other laws, vendor non-compliance with consumer product safety laws may subject us to product recalls, make certain products unsalable, or require us to incur significant compliance costs. regardless of fault, any real or perceived issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly products such as food and children's items, issues with the authenticity of merchandise, or our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulatory requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, result in lost sales, inventory write-offs, uninsured product liability or other legal claims, penalties or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs. an adverse outcome in various legal, regulatory, or tax matters could increase our costs. as an ordinary part of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, tax audits, or other legal matters. these may include lawsuits, inquiries, demands, or other claims or proceedings by governmental entities and private plaintiffs, including those relating to employment and employee benefits (including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour, and retaliation), securities, real estate, tort, commercial, consumer protection, privacy, product compliance and safety, advertising, comparative pricing, intellectual property, tax, escheat, and whistle-blower claims. we continue to be involved in a number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions which are primarily in california. we are subject to federal, state, and local rules and regulations in the united states, and to various international laws, which change from time to time. these legal requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of health care, workforce management and employee benefits, minimum wages, advertising, comparative pricing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection, intellectual property, and others. if we fail to comply (or are alleged not to comply) with any of these requirements, we may be subject to fines, settlements, penalties, or other costs. we are also subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, and local tax authorities, and these examining authorities may challenge positions we take. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for both legal claims and for taxes. actual results may differ and our costs may exceed the reserves we establish in estimating the probable outcomes. in addition, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and those changes could have material effects on our reported operating results and financial condition. damage to our corporate reputation or brands could adversely affect our sales and operating results. our reputation is partially based on perceptions of various subjective qualities and overall integrity. any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public could adversely affect our reputation and business, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. such an incident could also include alleged acts or omissions by or situations involving our suppliers (or their contractors or subcontractors). the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, continues to increase. the availability of information (whether correct or erroneous) on social media platforms is virtually immediate, as is its impact. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. the opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate information, is seemingly limitless and readily available. information concerning our company may be posted on such platforms at any time. information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, each of which could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity, and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified associates. the harm may be immediate, without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. 9 we must continually attract, train, and retain associates with the retail talent necessary to execute our off-price retail strategies. like other retailers, we face challenges in recruiting and retaining sufficient talent in our buying organization, management, and other key areas. many of our retail store associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs, as well as the impact of legislation or regulations governing minimum wage or healthcare benefits. any increase in labor costs may adversely impact our profitability or, if we fail to pay such higher wages, may result in increased turnover. excessive turnover may result in higher costs associated with finding, hiring, and training new associates. if we cannot hire enough qualified associates, or if there is a disruption in the supply of personnel we hire from third-party providers, especially during our peak season, our operations could be negatively impacted. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must also attract, train, and retain our key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor for a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operations, or financial position. we must effectively advertise and market our business. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising and marketing activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands, and the location of our stores. although we use marketing and advertising programs to attract customers to our stores, particularly through television, our competitors may spend more or use different approaches, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. our advertising and other promotional programs may not be effective or may be perceived negatively, or could require increased expenditures, which could adversely affect sales or increase costs. we are subject to risks associated with selling and importing merchandise produced in other countries. a predominant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell (even when purchased domestically, often as excess inventory sold to us by a domestic vendor) is originally manufactured in other countries. in addition, we directly source a portion of the products sold in our stores from foreign vendors predominantly in asia (including china). we also buy product from foreign sources indirectly through domestic vendors and manufacturers' representatives. although our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in u.s. dollars, decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. to the extent that our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, war, and acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. the flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured, if the instability affects the production or export of merchandise from those countries. trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. when we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those applicable to a manufacturer. these risks and uncertainties include import duties and quotas, compliance with anti-dumping regulations, work stoppages, economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation and recession), foreign government regulations, employment and labor matters, concerns relating to human rights, working conditions, and other issues in factories or countries where merchandise is produced, transparency of sourcing and supply chains, exposure on product warranty and intellectual property issues, consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise, wars and fears of war, political unrest, natural disasters, regulations to address climate change, and trade restrictions. we cannot predict whether any of the countries from which our products are sourced, or in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. or foreign governments or the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. we require our vendors (for both import and domestic purchasing) to adhere to various conduct, compliance, and other requirements including those relating to environmental, employment and labor (including wages and working conditions), health, safety, and anti-bribery standards. from time to time, our vendors, their contractors, or their subcontractors may be alleged to not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing 10 business in foreign markets and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to claims and liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in u.s. tax or tariff policy regarding apparel and home-related merchandise produced in other countries could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has indicated an intention to review and potentially to significantly change u.s. tax and trade policies. potential changes may include disallowance of the tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of significant tariffs on products imported into the u.s. this exposes us to risks of disruption and cost increases in our established patterns for sourcing our merchandise, and creates increased uncertainties in planning our sourcing strategies and forecasting our margins. a predominant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell is originally manufactured in other countries. changes in u.s. tariffs, quotas, trade relationships, or tax provisions that reduce the supply or increase the relative cost of goods produced in other countries are likely to increase our cost of goods and/or increase our effective tax rate. although such changes would have implications across the entire industry, we may fail to effectively adapt and to manage the adjustments in strategy that would be necessary in response to those changes. in addition to the general uncertainty and overall risk from those potential changes in u.s. laws and policies, as we make business decisions in the face of the uncertainty of those potential changes, we may incorrectly anticipate the outcomes, miss out on business opportunities, or fail to effectively adapt our business strategies and manage the adjustments that are necessary in response to those changes. these risks could adversely affect our revenues, increase our effective tax rates, and reduce our profitability. we may experience volatility in revenues and earnings. our business has slower and busier periods based on holiday and back-to-school seasons, weather, and other factors. although our off-price business is historically subject to less seasonality than traditional retailers, we may still experience unexpected decreases in sales from time to time, which could result in increased markdowns and reduced margins. significant operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not adjust proportionately with our sales. if sales in a certain period are lower than our plans, we are generally not able to adjust these operating expenses concurrently, which may impact our operating results. a natural or man-made disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores, offices, or a distribution center could harm our business. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, three operating distribution centers, two warehouses, and approximately 24% of our stores are located in california. natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, or other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions, and acts of war or terrorism, or public health issues (such as epidemics), in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or our supply chain, or could shut down, damage, or destroy our stores or distribution facilities. to support our continuing operations, our new store and distribution center growth plans, and our stock repurchase program and quarterly dividends, we must maintain sufficient liquidity. we depend upon our operations to generate strong cash flows to support our general operating activities, and to supply capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels, and return value to our stockholders through dividends and stock repurchases. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to support these activities, our growth plans and our financial performance would be adversely affected. if necessary to support our operations, we could be forced to suspend our stock repurchase program and/or discontinue payment of our quarterly cash dividends. any failure to pay dividends or repurchase stock, after we have announced our intention to do so, may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us, and may negatively impact our stock price. we have borrowed on occasion to finance some of our activities. if our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. in addition, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows, and returns to stockholders could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of january 28, 2017 . interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 28, 2017 , we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. we have two outstanding series of unsecured notes held by institutional investors: series a senior notes due december 2018 for $85 million accrue interest at 6.38% and series b senior notes due december 2021 for $65 million accrue interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of january 28, 2017 was $150 million. we also have unsecured 3.375% senior notes due september 2024 with an aggregate principal amount of $250 million. interest that is payable on our senior notes is based on fixed interest rates and is therefore unaffected by changes in market interest rates. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended january 28, 2017 . we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 29risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2017 , and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected growth, financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: competitive pressures in the apparel and home-related merchandise retailing industry are high. the retail industry is highly competitive and the marketplace is highly fragmented, as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store and on-line formats and merchandising strategies. we expect competition to increase in the future. there are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector. we compete with many other local, regional, and national retailers, traditional department stores, upscale mass merchandisers, other off-price retailers, specialty stores, internet and catalog businesses, and other forms of retail commerce, for customers, associates, store locations, and merchandise. our retail competitors constantly adjust their pricing, business strategies and promotional activity (particularly during holiday periods) in response to changing market conditions or their own financial condition. the substantial sales growth in the e-commerce industry within the last decade has also encouraged the entry of many new competitors, new business models, and an increase in competition from established companies looking for ways to create successful on-line off-price shopping alternatives. intense pressures from our competitors, our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape, or a failure to effectively execute our off-price model, could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. unexpected changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel and home-related merchandise could adversely affect us. our success depends on our ability to effectively buy and resell merchandise that meets customer demand. we work on an ongoing basis to identify customer trends and preferences, and to obtain merchandise inventory to meet anticipated customer needs. it is very challenging to successfully do this well and consistently across our diverse merchandise categories and in the multiple markets in which we operate throughout the united states. although our off-price business model provides us certain advantages and could allow us greater flexibility than traditional retailers in adjusting our merchandise mix to ever-changing consumer tastes, our merchandising decisions may still fail to correctly anticipate and match consumer trends and preferences, particularly in our newer geographic markets. failure to correctly anticipate and match the trends, preferences, and demands of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. adverse and/or unseasonable weather may affect shopping patterns and consumer demand for seasonal apparel and other merchandise, and may result in temporary store closures and disruptions in deliveries of merchandise to our stores. unseasonable weather and prolonged, extreme temperatures, and events such as storms, affect consumers' buying patterns and willingness to shop, and could adversely affect the demand for merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. among other things, weather conditions may also affect our ability to deliver our products to our stores or require us to close certain stores temporarily, thereby reducing store traffic. even if stores are not closed, many customers may be unable to go, or may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather in any of our markets could lead to disappointing sales and increase our markdowns, which may negatively affect our sales and margins. 6 we are subject to impacts from the macro-economic environment, financial and credit markets, and geopolitical conditions that affect consumer confidence and consumer disposable income. consumer spending habits for the merchandise we sell are affected by many factors, including prevailing economic conditions, recession and fears of recession, levels of unemployment, salaries and wage rates, housing costs, energy and fuel costs, income tax rates and the timing of tax refunds, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, availability of consumer credit, consumer debt levels, and consumers' disposable income. adverse developments in any of these areas could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. all of our stores are located in the united states and its territories, so we are especially susceptible to changes in the u.s. economy. in order to achieve our planned gross margins, we must effectively manage our inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. we purchase the majority of our inventory based on our sales plans. if our sales plans significantly differ from actual demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, resulting in decreased profit margins. we also may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales opportunities. as a regular part of our business, we purchase packaway inventory with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date. the timing of the release of packaway inventory to our stores varies by merchandise category and by season, but it typically remains in storage less than six months. packaway inventory is frequently a significant portion of our overall inventory. if we make packaway purchases that do not meet consumer preferences at the later time of release to our stores, we could have significant inventory markdowns. changes in packaway inventory levels could impact our operating cash flow. although we have various systems to help protect against loss or theft of our inventory, both when in storage and once distributed to our stores, we may have damaged, lost, or stolen inventory (called shortage ) in higher amounts than we forecast, which would result in write-offs, lost sales, and reduced margins. we depend on the market availability, quantity, and quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts, and on the ability of our buyers to purchase merchandise to enable us to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. opportunistic buying, lean inventory levels, and frequent inventory turns are critical elements of our off-price business strategy. maintaining an overall pricing differential to department and specialty stores is also key to our ability to attract customers and sustain our sales and gross margins. our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion on our merchants, who are in the marketplace continually and who are generally purchasing merchandise for the current or upcoming season. our ability to meet or exceed our operating performance targets depends upon the continuous, sufficient availability of high quality merchandise that we can acquire at prices sufficiently below those paid by conventional retailers and that represent a value to our customers. to the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. to the extent that certain of our vendors decide not to sell to us or go out of business, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could also be materially reduced. because a significant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell is originally manufactured in other countries, changes in u.s. tariffs, trade relationships, or tax policies that reduce the supply or increase the relative cost of imported goods, could also result in disruptions to our existing supply relationships. shortages or disruptions in the availability to us of high quality, value-priced merchandise would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and margins. 7 information or data security breaches, including cyber-attacks on our transaction processing and computer information systems, could result in theft or unauthorized disclosure of customer, credit card, employee, or other private and valuable information that we handle in the ordinary course of our business, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and increase our costs. like other large retailers, we rely on commercially available computer and telecommunications systems to process, transmit, and store payment card and other personal and confidential information, and to provide information or data security for those transactions. some of the key information systems and processes we use to handle payment card transactions and check approvals, and the levels of security technology utilized in payment cards, are controlled by the banking and payment card industry, not by us. cyber criminals may attempt to penetrate our point of sale and other information systems to misappropriate customer or business information, including but not limited to credit/debit card, personnel, or trade information. despite security measures we have in place and our efforts to prevent, monitor, and mitigate attacks and errors, our facilities and systems (or those of third-party service providers we utilize or connect to) may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, phishing and similar fraudulent attacks, or other similar events. it is also possible that an associate within our company or a third party we do business with may purposefully or inadvertently cause a security breach involving such information. the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and advances in computer capabilities and remote access increases these risks. a breach of our information or data security, a system shut down or other response we may take, or our failure or delay in detecting and mitigating a loss of personal or business information, could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customer confidence, violation (or alleged violation) of applicable laws, and expose us to civil claims, litigation, and regulatory action, and to unanticipated costs and disruption of our operations. disruptions in our supply chain or in our information systems could impact our ability to process sales and to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. various information systems are critical to our ability to operate and to manage key aspects of our business. we depend on the integrity and consistent operations of these systems to process transactions in our stores, track inventory flow, manage merchandise allocation and distribution logistics, generate performance and financial reports, and support merchandising decisions. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to improve or replace information processes and systems that are key to managing our business. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. the risk of system disruption is increased whenever significant system changes are undertaken. excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from new technology. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could damage our competitive position and adversely impact our business and results of operations. additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology system changes could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, floods, acts of terrorism, and design or usage errors by our employees or by third parties. if our information systems or our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. a disruption within our logistics or supply chain network could adversely affect our ability to timely and efficiently transport merchandise to our stores or our distribution centers, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales or increased supply chain costs. such disruptions may result from: damage or destruction to our distribution centers; weather-related events; natural disasters; trade restrictions; tariffs; third-party strikes or ineffective cross dock operations, work stoppages or slowdowns; shipping capacity constraints; supply or shipping interruptions or costs; or other factors beyond our control. any such disruptions could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition. 8 we need to obtain acceptable new store sites with favorable consumer demographics to achieve our planned growth. successful growth requires us to find appropriate real estate sites in our targeted market areas. we compete with other retailers and businesses for acceptable store locations. for the purpose of identifying locations we rely, in part, on consumer demographics. while we believe consumer demographics are helpful indicators of acceptable store locations, we recognize that this information cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. time frames for negotiations and store development vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays or unexpected cancellations. we may not be able to open new stores or, if opened, operate those stores profitably. construction and other delays in store openings could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. additionally, we may not be able to renegotiate our current lease terms which could negatively impact our operating results. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect the sales and profitability of other existing stores. if we cannot acquire sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to grow or adversely affect the economics of our new stores in various markets. to achieve growth, we need to expand in existing markets and enter new geographic markets. our growth strategy is based on successfully expanding our off-price model in current markets and in new geographic regions. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand our current business and to enter new markets. stores we open in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher construction, occupancy, advertising, or operating costs than stores we open in existing markets, thereby affecting our overall profitability. new markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may require us to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. we may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate, and retain qualified associates. consumer problems or legal issues involving the quality, safety, or authenticity of products we sell could harm our reputation, result in lost sales, and/or increase our costs. various governmental authorities regulate the quality and safety of merchandise we sell. these laws and regulations frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. because of our opportunistic buying strategy, we sometimes obtain merchandise in new categories or from new vendors that we have not dealt with before. although our vendor arrangements typically place contractual responsibility on the vendor for resulting liability and we generally rely on our vendors to provide authentic merchandise that matches the stated quality attributes and complies with applicable product safety and other laws, vendor non-compliance with consumer product safety laws may subject us to product recalls, make certain products unsalable, or require us to incur significant compliance costs. regardless of fault, any real or perceived issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly products such as food and children's items, issues with the authenticity of merchandise, or our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulatory requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, result in lost sales, inventory write-offs, uninsured product liability or other legal claims, penalties or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs. an adverse outcome in various legal, regulatory, or tax matters could damage our reputation or brand and increase our costs. as an ordinary part of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, tax audits, or other legal matters. these may include lawsuits, inquiries, demands, or other claims or proceedings by governmental entities and private plaintiffs, including those relating to employment and employee benefits (including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour, and retaliation), securities, real estate, tort, commercial, consumer protection, privacy, product compliance and safety, advertising, comparative pricing, intellectual property, tax, escheat, and whistle-blower claims. we continue to be involved in a number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions which are primarily in california. 9 we are subject to federal, state, and local rules and regulations in the united states, and to various international laws, which change from time to time. these legal requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of health care, workforce management and employee benefits, minimum wages, advertising, comparative pricing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection, intellectual property, and others. if we fail to comply (or are alleged not to comply) with any of these requirements, we may be subject to fines, settlements, penalties, or other costs. in addition, an adverse outcome (or the adverse publicity from the claims) in any of these matters may harm and damage our reputation or brand. we are also subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, and local tax authorities, and these examining authorities may challenge positions we take. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for both legal claims and for taxes. actual results may differ and our costs may exceed the reserves we establish in estimating the probable outcomes. in addition, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and those changes could have material effects on our reported operating results and financial condition. damage to our corporate reputation or brands could adversely affect our sales and operating results. our reputation is partially based on perceptions of various subjective qualities and overall integrity. any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public could adversely affect our reputation and business, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. such an incident could also include alleged acts or omissions by or situations involving our suppliers (or their contractors or subcontractors). the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, continues to increase. the availability of information (whether correct or erroneous) on social media platforms is virtually immediate, as is its impact. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. the opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate information, is seemingly limitless and readily available. information concerning our company may be posted on such platforms at any time. information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, each of which could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity, and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified associates. the harm may be immediate, without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we must continually attract, train, and retain associates with the retail talent necessary to execute our off-price retail strategies. like other retailers, we face challenges in recruiting and retaining sufficient talent in our buying organization, management, and other key areas. many of our retail store associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs, as well as the impact of legislation or regulations governing minimum wage or healthcare benefits. any increase in labor costs may adversely impact our profitability or, if we fail to pay such higher wages, may result in increased turnover. excessive turnover may result in higher costs associated with finding, hiring, and training new associates. if we cannot hire enough qualified associates, or if there is a disruption in the supply of personnel we hire from third-party providers, especially during our peak season, our operations could be negatively impacted. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must also attract, train, and retain our key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor for a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operations, or financial position. we must effectively advertise and market our business. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising and marketing activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands, and the location of our stores. although we use marketing and advertising programs to attract customers to our stores, particularly through television, our competitors may spend more or use different approaches, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. our advertising and other promotional programs may not be effective or may be perceived negatively, or could require increased expenditures, which could adversely affect sales or increase costs. 10 we are subject to risks associated with selling and importing merchandise produced in other countries. these risks and uncertainties include import duties and quotas, compliance with anti-dumping regulations, work stoppages, economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation and recession), foreign government regulations, employment and labor matters, concerns relating to human rights, working conditions, and other issues in factories or countries where merchandise is produced, transparency of sourcing and supply chains, exposure on product warranty and intellectual property issues, consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise, wars and fears of war, political unrest, natural disasters, regulations to address climate change, and trade restrictions. a predominant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell (even when we purchase it domestically, often as excess inventory sold to us by a domestic vendor) is originally manufactured in other countries. in addition, we directly source a portion of the products sold in our stores from foreign vendors predominantly in asia (including china). we also buy product from foreign sources indirectly through domestic vendors and manufacturers' representatives. although our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in u.s. dollars, decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. when we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those applicable to a manufacturer. to the extent that our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, war, and acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. the flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured, if the instability affects the production or export of merchandise from those countries. trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. we cannot predict whether any of the countries from which our products are sourced, or in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. or foreign governments or the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. we require our vendors (for both import and domestic purchasing) to adhere to various conduct, compliance, and other requirements including those relating to environmental, employment and labor (including wages and working conditions), health, safety, and anti-bribery standards. from time to time, our vendors, their contractors, or their subcontractors may be alleged to not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to claims and liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in u.s. tax or tariff policy regarding apparel and home-related merchandise produced in other countries could adversely affect our business. a predominant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell is originally manufactured in other countries. the u.s. government has at times indicated a willingness to significantly change existing trade policies. this exposes us to risks of disruption and cost increases in our established patterns for sourcing our merchandise, and creates increased uncertainties in planning our sourcing strategies and forecasting our margins. changes in u.s. tariffs, quotas, trade relationships, or tax provisions that reduce the supply or increase the relative cost of goods produced in other countries could increase our cost of goods and/or increase our effective tax rate. although such changes would have implications across the entire industry, we may fail to effectively adapt and to manage the adjustments in strategy that would be necessary in response to those changes. in addition to the general uncertainty and overall risk from potential changes in u.s. laws and policies, as we make business decisions in the face of uncertainty as to potential changes, we may incorrectly anticipate the outcomes, miss out on business opportunities, or fail to effectively adapt our business strategies and manage the adjustments that are necessary in response to those changes. these risks could adversely affect our revenues, increase our effective tax rates, and reduce our profitability. 11 we may experience volatility in revenues and earnings. our business has slower and busier periods based on holiday and back-to-school seasons, weather, and other factors. although our off-price business is historically subject to less seasonality than traditional retailers, we may still experience unexpected decreases in sales from time to time, which could result in increased markdowns and reduced margins. significant operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not adjust proportionately with our sales. if sales in a certain period are lower than our plans, we may not be able to adjust these operating expenses concurrently, which may impact our operating results. a natural or man-made disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores, offices, or a distribution center could harm our business. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, three operating distribution centers, two warehouses, and approximately 23% of our stores are located in california. natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, or other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions, and acts of war or terrorism, or public health issues (such as epidemics), in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or our supply chain, or could shut down, damage, or destroy our stores or distribution facilities. to support our continuing operations, our new store and distribution center growth plans, and our stock repurchase program and quarterly dividends, we must maintain sufficient liquidity. we depend upon our operations to generate strong cash flows to support our general operating activities, and to supply capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels, and return value to our stockholders through dividends and stock repurchases. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to support these activities, our growth plans and our financial performance would be adversely affected. if necessary to support our operations, we could be forced to suspend our stock repurchase program and/or discontinue payment of our quarterly cash dividends. any failure to pay dividends or repurchase stock, after we have announced our intention to do so, may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us, and may negatively impact our stock price. we have borrowed on occasion to finance some of our activities. if our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. in addition, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows, and returns to stockholders could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of february 3, 2018 . interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of february 3, 2018 , we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. we have two outstanding series of unsecured notes held by institutional investors: series a senior notes due december 2018 for $85 million accrue interest at 6.38% and series b senior notes due december 2021 for $65 million accrue interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of february 3, 2018 was $150 million. we also have unsecured 3.375% senior notes due september 2024 with an aggregate principal amount of $250 million. interest that is payable on our senior notes is based on fixed interest rates and is therefore unaffected by changes in market interest rates. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended february 3, 2018 . we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 31risk factors 7 risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2018 , and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected growth, financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and from our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: competitive pressures in the apparel and home-related merchandise retailing industry are high. the retail industry is highly competitive and the marketplace is highly fragmented, as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store and on-line formats and merchandising strategies. we expect competition to increase in the future. there are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector. we compete for customers, associates, store locations, and merchandise with many other local, regional, and national retailers, traditional department stores, upscale mass merchandisers, other off-price retailers, specialty stores, internet and catalog businesses, and other forms of retail commerce. our retail competitors constantly adjust their pricing, business strategies and promotional activity (particularly during holiday periods) in response to changing market conditions or their own financial condition. the substantial sales growth in e-commerce within the last decade has also encouraged the entry of many new competitors, new business models, and an increase in competition from established companies looking for ways to create successful on-line off-price shopping alternatives. intense pressures from our competitors, our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape, or a failure to effectively execute our off-price model, could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause us to take greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. unexpected changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel and home-related merchandise could adversely affect us. our success depends on our ability to effectively buy and resell merchandise that meets customer demand. we work on an ongoing basis to identify customer trends and preferences, and to obtain merchandise inventory to meet anticipated customer needs. it is very challenging to successfully do this well and consistently across our diverse merchandise categories and in the multiple markets in which we operate throughout the united states. although our off-price business model provides us certain advantages and may allow us greater flexibility than traditional retailers have in adjusting our merchandise mix to ever-changing consumer tastes, our merchandising decisions may still fail to correctly anticipate and match consumer trends and preferences, particularly in our newer geographic markets. failure to correctly anticipate and match the trends, preferences, and demands of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. adverse and/or unseasonable weather may affect shopping patterns and consumer demand for seasonal apparel and other merchandise, and may result in temporary store closures and disruptions in deliveries of merchandise to our stores. unseasonable weather and prolonged, extreme temperatures, and events such as storms, affect consumers' buying patterns and willingness to shop, and may adversely affect the demand for merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. among other things, weather conditions may also affect our ability to deliver our products to our stores or require us to close certain stores temporarily, thereby reducing store traffic. even if stores are not closed, many customers may be unable to go, or may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather in any of our markets could lead to disappointing sales and cause us to increase our markdowns, which may negatively affect our sales and margins. 7 we are subject to impacts from the macro-economic environment, financial and credit markets, and geopolitical conditions that affect consumer confidence and consumer disposable income. consumer spending habits for the merchandise we sell are affected by many factors, including prevailing economic conditions, recession and fears of recession, levels of unemployment, salaries and wage rates, housing costs, energy and fuel costs, income tax rates and the timing of tax refunds, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, availability of consumer credit, consumer debt levels, and consumers' disposable income. adverse developments in any of these areas could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. all of our stores are located in the united states and its territories, so we are especially susceptible to changes in the u.s. economy. in order to achieve our planned gross margins, we must effectively manage our inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. we purchase the majority of our inventory based on our sales plans. if our sales plans significantly differ from actual demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, resulting in decreased profit margins. we also may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales opportunities. as a regular part of our business, we purchase packaway inventory with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date. the timing of the release of packaway inventory to our stores varies by merchandise category and by season, but it typically remains in storage less than six months. packaway inventory is frequently a significant portion of our overall inventory. if we make packaway purchases that do not align with consumer preferences at the later time of release to our stores, we could have significant inventory markdowns. changes in packaway inventory levels could impact our operating cash flow. although we have various systems to help protect against loss or theft of our inventory, both when in storage and once distributed to our stores, we may have damaged, lost, or stolen inventory (called shortage ) in higher amounts than we forecast, which would result in write-offs, lost sales, and reduced margins. we depend on the market availability, quantity, and quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts, and on the ability of our buyers to purchase merchandise to enable us to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. opportunistic buying, lean inventory levels, and frequent inventory turns are critical elements of our off-price business strategy. maintaining an overall pricing differential to department and specialty stores is also key to our ability to attract customers and sustain our sales and gross margins. our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion with our merchants, who are in the marketplace continually and who are generally purchasing merchandise for the current or upcoming season. our ability to meet or exceed our operating performance targets depends upon the continuous, sufficient availability of high quality merchandise that we can acquire at prices sufficiently below those paid by conventional retailers and that represent a value to our customers. to the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. to the extent that certain of our vendors decide not to sell to us or go out of business, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could also be materially reduced. because a significant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell is originally manufactured in other countries, changes in u.s. tariffs, trade relationships, or tax policies that reduce the supply or increase the relative cost of imported goods, could also result in disruptions to our existing supply relationships. shortages or disruptions in the availability to us of high quality, value-priced merchandise would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and margins. 8 information or data security breaches, including cyber-attacks on our transaction processing and computer information systems, could result in theft or unauthorized disclosure of customer, credit card, employee, or other private and valuable information that we handle in the ordinary course of our business, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and increase our costs. like other large retailers, we rely on commercially available computer and telecommunications systems to process, transmit, and store payment card and other personal and confidential information, and to provide information or data security for those transactions. some of the key information systems and processes we use to handle payment card transactions and check approvals, and the levels of security technology utilized in payment cards, are controlled by the banking and payment card industry, not by us. cyber criminals may attempt to penetrate our point of sale and other information systems to misappropriate customer or business information, including but not limited to credit/debit card, personnel, or trade information. despite security measures we have in place, and our efforts to prevent, monitor, and mitigate attacks and errors, our facilities and systems (or those of third-party service providers we utilize or connect to) may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, phishing and similar fraudulent attacks, or other similar events. it is also possible that an associate within our company, or a third party we do business with, may purposefully or inadvertently cause a security breach involving such information. the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and advances in computer capabilities and remote access increases these risks. a breach of our information or data security, a system shut down or other response we may take, or our failure or delay in detecting and mitigating a loss of personal or business information, could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customer confidence, violation (or alleged violation) of applicable laws, and expose us to civil claims, litigation, and regulatory action, and to unanticipated costs and disruption of our operations. disruptions in our supply chain or in our information systems could impact our ability to process sales and to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. various information systems are critical to our ability to operate and to manage key aspects of our business. we depend on the integrity, continuous availability, and consistent operations of these systems to process transactions in our stores, track inventory flow, manage merchandise allocation and distribution logistics, generate performance and financial reports, and support merchandising decisions. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to improve or replace information processes and systems that are key to managing our business. we must monitor and choose sound investments and implement them at the right pace. the risk of system disruption is increased whenever significant system changes are undertaken. an excessive rate of technological change could detract from the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from new technology. poorly targeting opportunities, failing to make good investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could damage our competitive position and adversely impact our business and results of operations. additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology system changes could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. these initiatives might not provide us with the anticipated benefits, or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, floods, acts of terrorism, and design or usage errors by our employees or by third parties. if our information systems or our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. a disruption within our logistics or supply chain network could adversely affect our ability to timely and efficiently transport merchandise to our stores or our distribution centers, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales or increased supply chain costs. such disruptions may result from: damage or destruction to our distribution centers; weather-related events; natural disasters; trade restrictions; tariffs; third-party strikes or ineffective cross dock operations; work stoppages or slowdowns; shipping capacity constraints; supply or shipping interruptions or costs; or other factors beyond our control. any such disruptions could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition. 9 we need to obtain acceptable new store sites with favorable consumer demographics to achieve our planned growth. successful growth requires us to find appropriate real estate sites in our targeted market areas. we compete with other retailers and businesses for acceptable store locations. for the purpose of identifying locations we rely, in part, on consumer demographics. while we believe consumer demographics are helpful indicators of acceptable store locations, we recognize that this information cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. time frames for negotiations and store development vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays or unexpected cancellations. we may not be able to open new stores or, if opened, operate those new stores profitably. construction and other delays in store openings could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. additionally, we may not be able to renegotiate our current lease terms which could negatively impact our operating results. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect the sales and profitability of other existing stores. if we cannot acquire sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to grow or adversely affect the economics of our new stores in various markets. to achieve growth, we need to expand in existing markets and enter new geographic markets. our growth strategy is based on successfully expanding our off-price model in current markets and in new geographic regions. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand our current business and to enter new markets. stores we open in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher construction, occupancy, advertising, or operating costs than stores we open in existing markets, thereby affecting our overall profitability. new markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may require us to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. we may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate, and retain qualified associates. consumer problems or legal issues involving the quality, safety, or authenticity of products we sell could harm our reputation, result in lost sales, and/or increase our costs. various governmental authorities regulate the quality and safety of merchandise we sell. these regulations and related laws frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. because of our opportunistic buying strategy, we sometimes obtain merchandise in new categories or from new vendors that we have not dealt with before. although our vendor arrangements typically place contractual responsibility on the vendor for resulting liability and we generally rely on our vendors to provide authentic merchandise that matches the stated quality attributes, and complies with applicable product safety and other laws, vendor non-compliance with consumer product safety laws may subject us to product recalls, make certain products unsalable, or require us to incur significant compliance costs. regardless of fault, any real or perceived issues with the quality and safety of merchandise we offer, particularly products such as food and children's items, issues with the authenticity of merchandise, or our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with laws and regulatory requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, result in lost sales, inventory write-offs, uninsured product liability or other legal claims, penalties or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs. an adverse outcome in various legal, regulatory, or tax matters could damage our reputation or brand and increase our costs. as an ordinary part of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, tax audits, or other legal matters. these may include lawsuits, inquiries, demands, or other claims or proceedings by governmental entities and private plaintiffs, including those relating to employment and employee benefits (including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour, and retaliation), securities, real estate, tort, commercial, consumer protection, privacy, product compliance and safety, advertising, comparative pricing, intellectual property, tax, escheat, and whistle-blower claims. we continue to be involved in a number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions which are primarily in california. 10 we are subject to federal, state, and local rules and regulations in the united states, and to various international laws, which change from time to time. these legal requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of health care, workforce management and employee benefits, minimum wages, advertising, comparative pricing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection, intellectual property, and others. if we fail to comply (or are alleged not to comply) with any of these requirements, we may be subject to fines, settlements, penalties, or other costs. in addition, an adverse outcome (or the adverse publicity from the claims) in any of these matters may damage our reputation or brand. we are also subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, and local tax authorities, and these examining authorities may challenge positions we take. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax provisions and accruals for legal claims. actual results may differ and our costs may exceed the reserves we establish in estimating the probable outcomes. in addition, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and those changes could have material effects on our reported operating results and financial condition. damage to our corporate reputation or brands could adversely affect our sales and operating results. our reputation is partially based on perceptions of various subjective qualities and overall integrity. any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public could adversely affect our reputation and business, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. such an incident could also include alleged acts or omissions by or situations involving our suppliers (or their contractors or subcontractors), the landlord for our stores, or our associates outside of work, and may pertain to social or political issues or protests largely unrelated to our business. the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, continues to increase. the availability of information (whether correct or erroneous) on social media platforms is virtually immediate, as is its impact. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content. the opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate information, is seemingly limitless and readily available. information concerning our company may be posted on such platforms at any time. information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, which could negatively affect our sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity, and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified associates. the harm may be immediate, without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we must continually attract, train, and retain associates with the retail talent necessary to execute our off-price retail strategies. like other retailers, we face challenges in recruiting and retaining sufficient talent in our buying organization, management, stores, and other key areas. many of our retail store associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs, as well as the impact of legislation or regulations governing minimum wage or healthcare benefits. any increase in labor costs may adversely impact our profitability or, if we fail to pay such higher wages, may result in increased turnover. excessive turnover may result in higher costs associated with finding, hiring, and training new associates. if we cannot hire enough qualified associates, or if there is a disruption in the supply of personnel we hire from third-party providers, especially during our peak seasons, our operations could be negatively impacted. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must also attract, train, and retain our key associates across the company, especially within our buying organization. the loss of one or more of our key personnel, or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor for a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operations, or financial position. we must effectively advertise and market our business. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising and marketing activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands, and the location of our stores. although we use marketing and advertising programs to attract customers to our stores, particularly through television, our competitors may spend more or use different approaches, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. our advertising and other promotional programs may not be effective or may be perceived negatively, or could require increased expenditures, any of which could adversely affect sales or increase costs. 11 we are subject to risks associated with selling and importing merchandise produced in other countries. risks in importing and selling such merchandise include import duties and quotas, compliance with anti-dumping regulations, economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation, recession, and exchange rate fluctuations), foreign government regulations, employment and labor matters, concerns relating to human rights, working conditions, and other issues in factories or countries where merchandise is produced, transparency of sourcing and supply chains, exposure on product warranty and intellectual property issues, consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise, wars and fears of war, political unrest, natural disasters, regulations to address climate change, and trade restrictions. a predominant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell (even when we purchase it domestically, often as excess inventory sold to us by a domestic vendor) is originally manufactured in other countries. in addition, we directly source a portion of the products sold in our stores from foreign vendors predominantly in asia (including china). we also buy products that originate from foreign sources indirectly through domestic vendors and manufacturers' representatives. although our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in u.s. dollars, decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. when we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those applicable to a manufacturer. to the extent that our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, war, and acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. the flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured. trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. we cannot predict whether any of the countries from which our products are sourced, or in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. or foreign governments or the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. we require our vendors (for both import and domestic purchasing) to contractually confirm that they adhere to various conduct, compliance, and other requirements, including those relating to environmental, employment and labor (including wages and working conditions), health, safety, and anti-bribery standards. from time to time, our vendors, their contractors, or their subcontractors may be alleged to not be in compliance with these standards or with applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise, and to monitor our suppliers, this does not guarantee that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to claims and liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in u.s. tax or trade policy regarding apparel and home-related merchandise produced in other countries could adversely affect our business. a predominant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell is originally manufactured in other countries. the u.s. government has at times indicated a willingness to significantly change existing trade policies, including those with china. this exposes us to risks of disruption and cost increases in our established patterns for sourcing our merchandise, and creates increased uncertainties in planning our sourcing strategies and forecasting our margins. changes in u.s. tariffs, quotas, trade relationships, or tax provisions that reduce the supply or increase the relative cost of goods produced in other countries could increase our cost of goods and/or increase our effective tax rate. although such changes would have implications across the entire industry, we may fail to effectively adapt and to manage the adjustments in strategy that would be necessary in response to those changes. in addition to the general uncertainty and overall risk from potential changes in u.s. laws and policies, as we make business decisions in the face of uncertainty as to potential changes, we may incorrectly anticipate the outcomes, miss out on business opportunities, or fail to effectively adapt our business strategies and manage the adjustments that are necessary in response to those changes. these risks could adversely affect our revenues, increase our effective tax rates, and reduce our profitability. 12 we may experience volatility in revenues and earnings. our business has slower and busier periods based on holiday and back-to-school seasons, weather, and other factors. although our off-price business is historically subject to less seasonality than traditional retailers, we may still experience unexpected decreases in sales from time to time, which could result in increased markdowns and reduced margins. significant operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not adjust proportionately with our sales. if sales in a certain period are lower than our plans, we may not be able to adjust these operating expenses concurrently, which could adversely affect our operating results. a natural or man-made disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores, offices, or a distribution center could harm our business. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, three distribution centers, three warehouses, and approximately 23% of our stores are located in california. natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, or other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions, and acts of war or terrorism, or public health issues (such as epidemics), in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or our supply chain, or could shut down, damage, or destroy our stores or distribution facilities. to support our continuing operations, our new store and distribution center growth plans, and our stock repurchase program and quarterly dividends, we must maintain sufficient liquidity. we depend upon our operations to generate strong cash flows to support our general operating activities, and to supply capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels, and return value to our stockholders through dividends and stock repurchases. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to support these activities, our growth plans and our financial performance would be adversely affected. if necessary to support our operations, we could be forced to suspend our stock repurchase program and/or discontinue payment of our quarterly cash dividends. any failure to pay dividends or repurchase stock, after we have announced our intention to do so, may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us, and may negatively affect our stock price. we have borrowed on occasion to finance some of our activities. if our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. in addition, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows, and returns to stockholders could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of february 2, 2019 . interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of february 2, 2019 , we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. as of february 2, 2019 , we have one outstanding series of unsecured 6.53% series b senior notes due december 2021 with an aggregate principal amount of $65 million. we also have unsecured 3.375% senior notes due september 2024 with an aggregate principal amount of $250 million. interest that is payable on our senior notes is based on fixed interest rates and is therefore unaffected by changes in market interest rates. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended february 2, 2019 . we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 32risk factors 7 risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2019, and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events, including the rapidly developing challenges with and our plans and responses to the covid-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions, our financial performance, operations, competitive position, and our projected growth, that are all subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and from our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: the current, major health pandemic from the novel coronavirus (covid-19) is severely and adversely affecting our sales and our operations, and will have serious adverse effects on our business and our financial condition. the united states and other countries are experiencing a major global health pandemic related to the outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus (covid-19), and related, severe disruptions to retail operations and supply chains and to general economic activities, as the affected regions take increasingly dramatic action in an effort to slow down the spread of the disease. as the covid-19 pandemic continues, many of our customers are impacted by recommendations and/or mandates from federal, state, and local authorities to stay home ("shelter in place" or "safer at home") and to avoid non-essential social contact and gatherings of people, and to self-quarantine. in recent weeks starting in march 2020, we have experienced a broad-based deceleration in sales trends from consumer response to the covid-19 pandemic throughout the country. governmental authorities in affected regions are taking increasingly dramatic action in an effort to slow down the spread of the disease. as part of a growing number of retailers across the country, we have temporarily closed all store locations effective march 20, 2020 through april 3, 2020. we have closed our buying and corporate offices, and our distribution centers, for the same period, and we have instituted work from home measures for many of our associates. we are monitoring the situation and will reopen stores as conditions permit; however, extended or further closures may be required nationally, regionally, or in specific locations. the situation is unprecedented and rapidly changing, and has unknown duration and severity. this significant reduction in customer visits to our stores will result in a loss of sales and profits and have material adverse effects to our financial condition. in addition, the covid-19 pandemic will potentially adversely affect our ability to adequately staff our stores and our distribution, merchant, and other support operations. further, the covid-19 pandemic is currently severely impacting china and other countries, which may also adversely affect our ability to access and ship products from the impacted countries. a prolonged, widespread pandemic will adversely impact global economies and financial markets, which will result in an economic downturn that will reduce demand for our products. the extent of the impact from the covid-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak within the u.s., the response by all levels of government in their efforts to contain the outbreak and to mitigate the economic disruptions, and the related impact on consumer confidence and spending, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. such impacts are expected to adversely affect our profitability, cash flows, financial results, and our capital resources. 7 competitive pressures in the apparel and home-related merchandise retailing industry are high. the retail industry is highly competitive and the marketplace is highly fragmented, as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store and on-line formats and merchandising strategies. we expect competition to increase in the future. there are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector. we compete for customers, associates, store locations, and merchandise with many other local, regional, and national retailers, traditional department stores, upscale mass merchandisers, other off-price retailers, specialty stores, internet and catalog businesses, and other forms of retail commerce. our retail competitors constantly adjust their pricing, business strategies and promotional activity (particularly during holiday periods) in response to changing market conditions or their own financial condition. the substantial sales growth in e-commerce within the last decade has also encouraged the entry of many new competitors, new business models, and an increase in competition from established companies looking for ways to create successful on-line shopping alternatives. intense pressures from our competitors, our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape, or a failure to effectively execute our off-price model, could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause us to take greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. unexpected changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel and home-related merchandise could adversely affect us. our success depends on our ability to effectively buy and resell merchandise that meets customer demand. we work on an ongoing basis to identify customer trends and preferences, and to obtain merchandise inventory to meet anticipated customer needs. it is very challenging to successfully do this well and consistently across our diverse merchandise categories and in the multiple markets in which we operate throughout the united states and its territories. although our off-price business model provides us certain advantages and may allow us greater flexibility than traditional retailers have in adjusting our merchandise mix to ever-changing consumer tastes, our merchandising decisions may still fail to correctly anticipate and match consumer trends and preferences, particularly in our newer geographic markets. failure to correctly anticipate and match the trends, preferences, and demands of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. adverse and/or unseasonable weather may affect shopping patterns and consumer demand for seasonal apparel and other merchandise, and may result in temporary store closures and disruptions in deliveries of merchandise to our stores. unseasonable weather and prolonged, extreme temperatures, as well as events such as storms, affect consumers' buying patterns and willingness to shop, and may adversely affect the demand for merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. among other things, weather conditions may also affect our ability to deliver our products to our stores or require us to close certain stores temporarily, thereby reducing store traffic. even if stores are not closed, many customers may be unable to go, or may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather in any of our markets could lead to disappointing sales and cause us to increase our markdowns, which may negatively affect our sales and margins. we are subject to impacts from the macro-economic environment, financial and credit markets, and geopolitical conditions that affect consumer confidence and consumer disposable income. consumer spending habits for the merchandise we sell are affected by many factors, including the reaction and repercussions from the covid-19 pandemic, prevailing economic conditions, recession and fears of recession, levels of unemployment, salaries and wage rates, housing costs, energy and fuel costs, income tax rates and the timing of tax refunds, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, availability of consumer credit, consumer debt levels, and consumers' disposable income. the covid-19 pandemic, or other potential, adverse developments in any of these areas could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. all of our stores are located in the united states and its territories, so we are especially susceptible to changes in the u.s. economy. in order to achieve our planned gross margins, we must effectively manage our inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. we purchase the majority of our inventory based on our sales plans. if our actual demand is lower than our sales plans, we may experience excess inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, resulting in decreased profit margins. we also may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales opportunities. as a regular part of our business, we purchase packaway inventory with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date. the timing of the release of packaway inventory to our stores varies by merchandise category and by season, but it typically remains in storage less than six months. packaway inventory is frequently a significant portion of our overall inventory. if we make packaway purchases that 8 do not align with consumer preferences at the later time of release to our stores, we could have significant inventory markdowns. changes in packaway inventory levels could impact our operating cash flow. although we have various systems to help protect against loss or theft of our inventory, both when in storage and once distributed to our stores, we may have damaged, lost, or stolen inventory (called shortage ) in higher amounts than we forecast, which would result in write-offs, lost sales, and reduced margins. we depend on the market availability, quantity, and quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts, and on the ability of our buyers to purchase merchandise to enable us to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. opportunistic buying, lean inventory levels, and frequent inventory turns are critical elements of our off-price business strategy. maintaining an overall pricing differential to department and specialty stores is also key to our ability to attract customers and sustain our sales and gross margins. our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion with our merchants, who are in the marketplace continually and who are generally purchasing merchandise for the current or upcoming season. our ability to meet or exceed our operating performance targets depends upon the continuous, sufficient availability of high quality merchandise that we can acquire at prices sufficiently below those paid by conventional retailers and that represent a value to our customers. to the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. to the extent that certain of our vendors decide not to sell to us or go out of business, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could also be materially reduced. because a significant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell is originally manufactured in other countries, changes in u.s. tariffs, trade relationships, or tax policies, and natural disasters, or public health issues such as the current covid-19 pandemic (or other, future pandemics), that reduce the supply or increase the relative cost of imported goods, could also result in disruptions to our existing supply relationships. shortages or disruptions in the availability to us of high quality, value-priced merchandise would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and margins. information or data security breaches, including cyber-attacks on our transaction processing and computer information systems, could result in theft or unauthorized disclosure of customer, credit card, employee, or other private and valuable information that we handle in the ordinary course of our business, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and increase our costs. like other large retailers, we rely on commercially available computer and telecommunications systems to process, transmit, and store payment card and other personal and confidential information, and to provide information or data security for those transactions. some of the key information systems and processes we use to handle payment card transactions and check approvals, and the levels of security technology utilized in payment cards, are controlled by the banking and payment card industry, not by us. cyber criminals may attempt to penetrate our point of sale and other information systems to misappropriate customer or business information, including but not limited to credit/debit card, personnel, or trade information. despite security measures we have in place, and our efforts to prevent, monitor, and mitigate attacks and errors, our facilities and systems (or those of third-party service providers we utilize or connect to) may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, phishing and similar fraudulent attacks, or other similar events. it is also possible that an associate within our company, or a third party we do business with, may purposefully or inadvertently cause a security breach involving such information. the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and advances in computer capabilities and remote access increases these risks. a breach of our information or data security, a system shut down or other response we may take, or our failure or delay in detecting and mitigating a loss of personal or business information, could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customer confidence, violation (or alleged violation) of applicable laws, and expose us to civil claims, litigation, and regulatory action, and to unanticipated costs and disruption of our operations. disruptions in our supply chain or in our information systems could impact our ability to process sales and to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. various information systems are critical to our ability to operate and to manage key aspects of our business. we depend on the integrity, continuous availability, and consistent operations of these systems to process transactions in our stores, track inventory flow, manage merchandise allocation and distribution logistics, generate performance and financial reports, and support merchandising decisions. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to improve or replace information processes and systems that are key to managing our business. we must monitor and choose sound investments and implement them at the right pace. the risk of system disruption is increased whenever significant system changes are undertaken. an excessive rate of technological change could detract from the effectiveness of 9 adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from new technology. poorly targeting opportunities, failing to make good investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could damage our competitive position and adversely impact our business and results of operations. additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology system changes could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. these initiatives might not provide us with the anticipated benefits, or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, floods, acts of terrorism, and design or usage errors by our employees or by third parties. if our information systems or our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. a disruption within our logistics or supply chain network could adversely affect our ability to timely and efficiently transport merchandise to our stores or our distribution centers, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales or increased supply chain costs. such disruptions may result from: public health issues such as the current covid-19 pandemic (or other, future pandemics), damage or destruction to our distribution centers, weather-related events, natural disasters, trade restrictions, tariffs, third-party strikes or ineffective cross dock operations, work stoppages or slowdowns, shipping capacity constraints, supply or shipping interruptions, or other factors beyond our control. any such disruptions could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition. we need to obtain acceptable new store sites with favorable consumer demographics to achieve our planned growth. successful growth requires us to find appropriate real estate sites in our targeted market areas. we compete with other retailers and businesses for acceptable store locations. for the purpose of identifying locations we rely, in part, on consumer demographics. while we believe consumer demographics are helpful indicators of acceptable store locations, we recognize that this information cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. time frames for negotiations and store development vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays or unexpected cancellations. we may not be able to open new stores or, if opened, operate those new stores profitably. construction and other delays in store openings could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. additionally, we may not be able to renegotiate our current lease terms which could negatively impact our operating results. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect the sales and profitability of other existing stores. if we cannot acquire sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to grow or adversely affect the economics of our new stores in various markets. to achieve growth, we need to expand in existing markets and enter new geographic markets. our growth strategy is based on successfully expanding our off-price model in current markets and in new geographic regions. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand our current business and to enter new markets. stores we open in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher construction, occupancy, advertising, or operating costs than stores we open in existing markets, thereby affecting our overall profitability. new markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may require us to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. we may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate, and retain qualified associates. consumer problems or legal issues involving the quality, safety, or authenticity of products we sell could harm our reputation, result in lost sales, and/or increase our costs. various governmental authorities regulate the quality and safety of merchandise we sell. these regulations and related laws frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. because of our opportunistic buying strategy, we sometimes obtain merchandise in new categories or from new vendors that we have not dealt with before. although our vendor arrangements typically place contractual responsibility on the vendor for resulting liability and we generally rely on our vendors to provide authentic merchandise that matches the stated quality attributes and complies with applicable product safety and other laws, vendor non-compliance with 10 consumer product safety laws may subject us to product recalls, make certain products unsalable, or require us to incur significant compliance costs. regardless of fault, any real or perceived issues with the quality and safety of merchandise we offer, particularly products such as food and children's items, issues with the authenticity of merchandise, or our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with laws and regulatory requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, result in lost sales, inventory write-offs, uninsured product liability or other legal claims, penalties or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs. an adverse outcome in various legal, regulatory, or tax matters could damage our reputation or brand and increase our costs. as an ordinary part of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, tax audits, or other legal matters. these may include lawsuits, inquiries, demands, or other claims or proceedings by governmental entities and private plaintiffs, including those relating to employment and employee benefits (including classification, employment rights, discrimination, harassment, wage and hour, and retaliation), securities, real estate, tort, commercial, consumer protection, privacy, product compliance and safety, advertising, comparative pricing, intellectual property, tax, escheat, and whistle-blower claims. we continue to be involved in a number of employment-related lawsuits, including class/representative actions which are primarily in california. we are subject to federal, state, and local rules and regulations in the united states, and to various international laws, which change from time to time. these legal requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of health care, workforce management and employee benefits, minimum wages, advertising, comparative pricing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection, intellectual property, and others. if we fail to comply (or are alleged not to comply) with any of these requirements, we may be subject to fines, settlements, penalties, or other costs. in addition, an adverse outcome (or the adverse publicity from the claims) in any of these matters may damage our reputation or brand. we are also subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, and local tax authorities, and these examining authorities may challenge positions we take. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax provisions and reserves for legal claims. actual results may differ and our costs may exceed the reserves we establish in estimating the probable outcomes. in addition, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and those changes could have material effects on our reported operating results and financial condition. damage to our corporate reputation or brands could adversely affect our sales and operating results. our reputation is partially based on perceptions of various subjective qualities and overall integrity. any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public could adversely affect our reputation and business, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. such an incident could also include alleged acts or omissions by or situations involving our suppliers (or their contractors or subcontractors), the landlord for our stores, or our associates outside of work, and may pertain to social or political issues or protests largely unrelated to our business. the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, continues to increase. the availability of information (whether correct or erroneous) on social media platforms is virtually immediate, as is its impact. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content. the opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate information, is seemingly limitless and readily available. information concerning our company may be posted on such platforms at any time. information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, which could negatively affect our sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity, and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified associates. the harm may be immediate, without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. our inability to continually attract, train, and retain associates with the retail talent necessary to execute our off-price retail strategies along with labor shortages, increased turnover, or increased labor costs could adversely affect our operating results. like other retailers, we face challenges in recruiting and retaining sufficient talent in our buying organization, management, stores, distribution centers, and other key areas. many of our retail store associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs, as well as the impact of legislation or regulations governing minimum wage or healthcare benefits. 11 any increase in labor costs may adversely impact our profitability or, if we fail to pay such higher wages, may result in increased turnover. excessive turnover may result in higher costs associated with finding, hiring, and training new associates. if we cannot hire enough qualified associates, or if there is a disruption in the supply of personnel we hire from third-party providers, especially during our peak seasons, our operations could be negatively impacted. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must also attract, train, and retain our key associates across the company, especially within our buying organization. the loss of one or more of our key personnel, or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor for a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operations, or financial position. we must effectively advertise and market our business. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising and marketing activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands, and the location of our stores. although we use marketing and advertising programs to attract customers to our stores, particularly through television, our competitors may spend more or use different approaches, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. our advertising and other promotional programs may not be effective or may be perceived negatively, or could require increased expenditures, any of which could adversely affect sales or increase costs. we are subject to risks associated with selling and importing merchandise produced in other countries. risks in importing and selling such merchandise include import duties and quotas, compliance with anti-dumping regulations, economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation, recession, and exchange rate fluctuations), foreign government regulations, employment and labor matters, concerns relating to human rights, working conditions, and other issues in factories or countries where merchandise is produced, transparency of sourcing and supply chains, exposure on product warranty and intellectual property issues, consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise, wars and fears of war, political unrest, natural disasters, regulations to address climate change, and trade restrictions. a predominant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell (even when we purchase it domestically, often as excess inventory sold to us by a domestic vendor) is originally manufactured in other countries. in addition, we directly source a portion of the products sold in our stores from foreign vendors predominantly in asia (including china). we also buy products that originate from foreign sources indirectly through domestic vendors and manufacturers' representatives. although our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in u.s. dollars, decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. when we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those applicable to a manufacturer. to the extent that our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues such as the current covid-19 pandemic (or other, future pandemics) could adversely affect our business. the flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured. trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. we cannot predict whether any of the countries from which our products are sourced, or in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. or foreign governments or the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. we require our vendors (for both import and domestic purchasing) to contractually confirm that they adhere to various conduct, compliance, and other requirements, including those relating to environmental, employment and labor (including wages and working conditions), health, safety, and anti-bribery standards. from time to time, our vendors, their contractors, or their subcontractors may be alleged to not be in compliance with these standards or with applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise, and to monitor our suppliers, this does not guarantee that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to claims and liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 changes in u.s. tax or trade policy regarding apparel and home-related merchandise produced in other countries could adversely affect our business. a predominant portion of the apparel and other goods we sell is originally manufactured in other countries. the u.s. government has at times indicated a willingness to significantly change existing trade policies, including those with china. this exposes us to risks of disruption and cost increases in our established patterns for sourcing our merchandise, and creates increased uncertainties in planning our sourcing strategies and forecasting our margins. changes in u.s. tariffs, quotas, trade relationships, or tax provisions that reduce the supply or increase the relative cost of goods produced in other countries could increase our cost of goods and/or increase our effective tax rate. although such changes would have implications across the entire industry, we may fail to effectively adapt and to manage the adjustments in strategy that would be necessary in response to those changes. in addition to the general uncertainty and overall risk from potential changes in u.s. laws and policies, as we make business decisions in the face of uncertainty as to potential changes, we may incorrectly anticipate the outcomes, miss out on business opportunities, or fail to effectively adapt our business strategies and manage the adjustments that are necessary in response to those changes. these risks could adversely affect our revenues and expenses, increase our effective tax rates, and reduce our profitability. we may experience volatility in revenues and earnings. our business has slower and busier periods based on holiday and back-to-school seasons, weather, and other factors. although our off-price business is historically subject to less seasonality than traditional retailers, we may still experience unexpected decreases in sales from time to time, which could result in increased markdowns and reduced margins. significant operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not adjust proportionately with our sales. if sales in a certain period are lower than our plans, we may not be able to adjust these operating expenses concurrently, which could adversely affect our operating results. a pandemic, natural or man-made disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores, offices, or a distribution center could harm our business. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, nine distribution centers/warehouses, and approximately 23% of our stores are located in california. natural or other disasters, such as the current covid-19 pandemic (or other, future pandemics), earthquakes and hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, or other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions, and acts of war or terrorism, or public health issues, in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or our supply chain, or could shut down, damage, or destroy our stores or distribution facilities. at the time of this filing, more than 40 million residents in california are under governmental orders to stay at home ( shelter in place or safer at home ) and to avoid non-essential social contact and gatherings of people. the duration of this situation is unknown, and it is severely and adversely affecting our sales and our financial results. to support our continuing operations, our new store and distribution center growth plans, our quarterly dividends, and any resumption of our stock repurchase program, we must maintain sufficient liquidity; the covid-19 pandemic and related economic disruption are adding significant uncertainty and challenges. we depend upon our operations to generate strong cash flows to support our general operating activities, and to supply capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels, and return value to our stockholders through dividends and stock repurchases. in recent weeks starting in march 2020, we have experienced a broad-based deceleration in sales trends from consumer response to the covid-19 pandemic throughout the country. governmental authorities in affected regions are taking increasingly dramatic action in an effort to slow down the spread of the disease. as part of a growing number of retailers across the country, we have temporarily closed all store locations effective march 20, 2020 through april 3, 2020. we have closed our buying and corporate offices, and our distribution centers, for the same period, and we have instituted work from home measures for many of our associates. we are monitoring the situation and will reopen stores as conditions permit; however, extended or further closures may be required nationally, regionally, or in specific locations. the situation is unprecedented and rapidly changing, and has unknown duration and severity. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to support our activities, our growth plans and our financial performance would be adversely affected. we have already temporarily suspended our stock repurchase program. if necessary to support our operations, we could be forced to discontinue payment of our quarterly cash dividends. the failure to repurchase stock, and any failure to pay dividends may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us, and may negatively affect our stock price. 13 we have borrowed on occasion to finance some of our activities. in march 2020, we borrowed $800 million from our revolving credit facility to add to our cash balances in order to provide enhanced financial flexibility due to uncertain market conditions arising from the impact of the covid-19 pandemic. if our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. in addition, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows, and returns to stockholders could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of february 1, 2020. interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of february 1, 2020, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. as of february 1, 2020, we have one outstanding series of unsecured 6.53% series b senior notes due december 2021 with an aggregate principal amount of $65 million. we also have unsecured 3.375% senior notes due september 2024 with an aggregate principal amount of $250 million. interest that is payable on our senior notes is based on fixed interest rates and is therefore unaffected by changes in market interest rates. we receive interest on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended february 1, 2020. we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 35quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk management believes that the market risk associated with the company's ownership of market-risk sensitive financial instruments (including interest rate risk and equity price risk) as of february 3, 2001 is not material. 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risks, which primarily includes changes in interest rates. the company does not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. interest that is payable on the company's credit facilities is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, lease payments under the company's synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. these lease payments will begin upon completion of construction of each new distribution center. as of february 2, 2002, the company did not have any long-term debt outstanding. the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risks, which primarily includes changes in interest rates. the company does not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. interest that is payable on the company credit facilities is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, lease payments under the company synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. lease payments on the southern california distribution center will begin upon completion of construction. as of february 1, 2003, the company had $25 million of long-term debt outstanding which accrues interest at libor plus 150 basis points. the company does not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible near term changes in interest rates to be material. the company does not currently use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. 20quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. the company does not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. interest that is payable on the company revolving credit facilities and long-term debt is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, lease payments under certain of the company synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 31, 2004, the company had no borrowings outstanding under its revolving credit facilities and had $50 million of long-term debt outstanding which accrues interest at libor plus 150 basis points. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in prevailing market interest rates would not have materially impacted the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended january 31, 2004. the company does not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible near term changes in interest rates to be material. the company does not currently use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. 23quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. the company does not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. interest that is payable on the company revolving credit facilities and long-term debt is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, lease payments under certain of the company synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 29, 2005, the company had no borrowings outstanding under its revolving credit facilities and had $50 million of long-term debt outstanding which accrues interest at libor plus 150 basis points. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in prevailing market interest rates would not have materially impacted the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended january 29, 2005. the company does not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible near term changes in interest rates to be material. the company uses forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. the company had no outstanding forward contracts at january 29, 2005. 26risk factors our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2005, and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports and other investor communications, including those on our website, may contain a number of forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are subject to risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd discounts include, without limitation, the following: we are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large united states retailers. our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores. these risks include a number of factors, including: an increase in the level of competitive pressures in the retail apparel or home-related merchandise industry. potential changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise. potential changes in geopolitical and/or general economic conditions that could affect the availability of product and/or the level of consumer spending. unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. a change in the availability, quantity or quality of attractive brand-name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of competitive bargains. potential disruptions in supply chain that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. a change in the availability, quality or cost of new store real estate locations. a downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores, or a distribution center. our corporate headquarters, two distribution centers and 29% of our stores are located in california. as a result, these risks could significantly affect the company operating results and financial condition. 6 we are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies. the continued success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, and to open new stores and to operate stores on a profitable basis. our existing strategies and store expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue growth or profit growth. in executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve our efficiency, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including: our ability to attract and retain personnel with the retail talent necessary to execute our strategies. our ability to effectively implement and operate our various supply chain, core merchandising and other information systems, including generation of all necessary data and reports for merchants, allocators and other business users in a timely and cost-effective manner. our ability in 2006 and 2007 to successfully implement new processes and systems enhancements that are expected to improve our micro-merchandising capabilities with the goal of being able to plan, buy and allocate product at a more local versus regional level. our ability to improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. our ability to achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our distribution centers. our ability to continue to obtain acceptable new store locations. our ability to identify and to successfully enter new geographic markets. lower than planned gross margin, including higher than planned markdowns, inventory shortage or freight costs. greater than planned operating costs including, among other factors, increases in occupancy costs, advertising costs, and wage and benefit costs, including as a result of changes in labor laws or as a result of class action or other lawsuits relating to wage and hour claims and other labor-related matters. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts at january 28, 2006. interest that is payable on our revolving credit facilities and term debt is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, lease payments under certain of our synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 28, 2006, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facilities and had $50 million of term debt outstanding which accrues interest at libor plus 175 basis points. in addition, the lease on our distribution center in fort mill, south carolina accrues interest at libor plus 90 basis points. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in prevailing market interest rates would not have materially impacted our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended january 28, 2006. we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near term changes in interest rates to be material. 25risk factors. our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2006, and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports and other investor communications, including those on our website, may contain a number of forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are subject to risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd discounts include, without limitation, the following: 5 we are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large united states retailers. our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores. these risks include a number of factors, including: an increase in the level of competitive pressures in the retail apparel or home-related merchandise industry. potential changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise, including the potential impact from higher gas prices and/or lower home prices on consumer spending. potential changes in geopolitical and/or general economic conditions that could affect the availability of product and/or the level of consumer spending. unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. a change in the availability, quantity or quality of attractive brand-name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. potential disruptions in the supply chain that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. a change in the availability, quality or cost of new store real estate locations. a downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a distribution center. our corporate headquarters, two distribution centers and 28% of our stores are located in california. potential pressure on freight costs from higher-than-expected fuel surcharges. we are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute our merchandising and growth strategies. the continued success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, and to open new stores and to operate stores on a profitable basis. our existing strategies and store expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue growth or profit growth. in executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve our efficiency, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including: our ability to attract and retain personnel with the retail expertise necessary to execute our strategies. our ability to effectively implement and operate our various supply chain, core merchandising and other information systems, including generation of all necessary data and reports for merchants, allocators and other business users in a timely and cost-effective manner. our ability to successfully implement new processes and systems enhancements that are expected to improve our merchandising capabilities over the next few years with the goal of being able to plan, buy and allocate product at a more local versus regional level. our ability to improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. our ability to achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our distribution centers. our ability to continue to acquire or lease acceptable new store locations. our ability to identify and to successfully enter new geographic markets. lower than planned gross margin, including higher than planned markdowns, inventory shortage or freight costs. greater than planned operating costs including, among other factors, increases in occupancy costs, advertising costs, and wage and benefit costs, including the impact of changes in labor laws or as a result of class action or other lawsuits relating to wage and hour claims and other labor-related matters. our ability to convert certain former albertsons real estate sites to the ross and dd discounts formats in a timely and cost-effective manner and on acceptable terms, and the ability to achieve targeted levels of sales, profits and cash flows from these acquired store locations. 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of february 3, 2007. interest that is payable on our revolving credit facilities is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, lease payments under certain of our synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of february 3, 2007, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facilities. in addition, the company issued notes to institutional investors in two series; series a for $85.0 million accrues interest at 6.38% and series b for $65.0 million accrues interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of february 3, 2007 is $150.0 million. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in prevailing market interest rates would not have materially impacted our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended february 3, 2007. we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near term changes in interest rates to be material. 25quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of january 31, 2009. interest payable on our revolving credit facilities is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 31, 2009, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facilities. in addition, lease payments under certain of our synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, we issued notes to institutional investors in two series: series a for $85 million accrues interest at 6.38% and series b for $65 million accrues interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of january 31, 2009 is $150 million. interest is receivable on our short and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have materially impacted our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short and long-term investments as of and for the year ended january 31, 2009. we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near term changes in interest rates to be material. 26risk factors. our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2009, and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are subject to risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: we are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large retailers operating in the united states. our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores. these risk factors include: an increase in the level of competitive pressures in the apparel or home-related merchandise industry. changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise, including the potential impact from the macro-economic environment, uncertainty in financial and credit markets, and changes in geopolitical conditions. unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. a change in the availability, quantity, or quality of attractive brand-name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. potential disruptions in the supply chain that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. a change in the availability, quality, or cost of new store real estate locations. a downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a distribution center. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, two distribution centers, and 26% of our stores are located in california. we are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies. the continued success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, to open new stores, and to operate stores on a profitable basis. our existing strategies and store expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue or profit growth. in executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve efficiencies, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including: our ability to attract and retain personnel with the retail talent necessary to execute our strategies. 9 our ability to effectively operate our various supply chain, core merchandising, and other information systems. our ability to improve our merchandising capabilities through the recent implementation of new processes and systems enhancements. our ability to improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. our ability to achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our distribution centers. our ability to lease or acquire acceptable new store sites with favorable demographics and long term financial returns. our ability to identify and to successfully enter new geographic markets. our ability to achieve planned gross margins by effectively managing inventories, markdowns, and shrink. our ability to effectively manage all operating costs of the business, the largest of which are payroll and benefit costs for store and distribution center employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of january 30, 2010. 28 interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 30, 2010, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. in addition, lease payments under certain of our synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, we issued notes to institutional investors in two series: series a for $85 million accrues interest at 6.38% and series b for $65 million accrues interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of january 30, 2010 is $150 million. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have materially impacted our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended january 30, 2010. we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near term changes in interest rates to be material. 29risk factors. our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2010, and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are subject to risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management's discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd's discounts include, without limitation, the following: we are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large retailers operating in the united states. our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores. these risk factors include: an increase in the level of competitive pressures in the apparel or home-related merchandise industry. changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise. 8 the potential impact from the macro-economic environment and uncertainty in financial and credit markets including but not limited to interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, energy costs, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, and fluctuating commodity costs. changes in geopolitical conditions. unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. a change in the availability, quantity, or quality of attractive brand-name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. potential disruptions in the supply chain that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. a change in the availability, quality, or cost of new store real estate locations. a downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a distribution center. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, two distribution centers, and 26% of our stores are located in california. we are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies. the continued success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, to open new stores, and to operate stores on a profitable basis. our existing strategies and store expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue or profit growth. in executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve efficiencies, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including: our ability to attract and retain personnel with the retail talent necessary to execute our strategies. our ability to effectively operate our various supply chain, core merchandising, and other information systems. our ability to improve our merchandising capabilities through implementation of new processes and systems enhancements. our ability to improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. our ability to achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our distribution centers. our ability to lease or acquire acceptable new store sites with favorable demographics and long-term financial returns. our ability to identify and to successfully enter new geographic markets. our ability to achieve planned gross margins by effectively managing inventories, markdowns, and shrink. our ability to effectively manage all operating costs of the business, the largest of which are payroll and benefit costs for store and distribution center employees. 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of january 29, 2011. interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 29, 2011, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. in addition, lease payments under certain of our synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, we issued unsecured notes to institutional investors in two series: series a for $85 million accrues interest at 6.38% and series b for $65 million accrues interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of january 29, 2011 was $150 million. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have materially impacted our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended january 29, 2011. we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near term changes in interest rates to be material. 28risk factors. our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2011, and information we provide in our annual report to stockholders, press releases, telephonic reports, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. refer to management discussion and analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of forward-looking statements. our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. risks and uncertainties that apply to both ross and dd discounts include, without limitation, the following: we are subject to the economic and industry risks that affect large retailers operating in the united states. our business is exposed to the risks of a large, multi-store retailer, which must continually and efficiently obtain and distribute a supply of fresh merchandise throughout a large and growing network of stores. these risk factors include: an increase in the level of competitive pressures in the apparel or home-related merchandise industry. changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel or home-related merchandise. the impact from the macro-economic environment and financial and credit markets including but not limited to interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, energy costs, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, and fluctuating commodity costs. changes in geopolitical and geoeconomic conditions. unseasonable weather trends that could affect consumer demand for seasonal apparel and apparel-related products. a change in the availability, quantity, or quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts that could impact our ability to purchase product and continue to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. potential disruptions in the supply chain that could impact our ability to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. a change in the availability, quality, or cost of new store real estate locations. a downturn in the economy or a natural disaster in california or in another region where we have a concentration of stores or a distribution center. our corporate headquarters, los angeles buying office, two distribution centers, one warehouse, and 26% of our stores are located in california. we are subject to operating risks as we attempt to execute on our merchandising and growth strategies. the continued success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing store locations, to open new stores, and to operate stores on a profitable basis. our existing strategies and store expansion programs may not result in a continuation of our anticipated revenue or profit growth. in executing our off-price retail strategies and working to improve efficiencies, expand our store network, and reduce our costs, we face a number of operational risks, including: 8 our ability to attract and retain personnel with the retail talent necessary to execute our strategies. our ability to effectively operate our various supply chain, core merchandising, and other information systems. our ability to improve our merchandising capabilities through implementation of new processes and systems enhancements. our ability to improve new store sales and profitability, especially in newer regions and markets. our ability to achieve and maintain targeted levels of productivity and efficiency in our distribution centers. our ability to lease or acquire acceptable new store sites with favorable demographics and long-term financial returns. our ability to identify and to successfully enter new geographic markets. our ability to achieve planned gross margins by effectively managing inventories, markdowns, and shrink. our ability to effectively manage all operating costs of the business, the largest of which are payroll and benefit costs for store and distribution center employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. we do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we had no outstanding forward contracts as of january 28, 2012. interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. as of january 28, 2012, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. in addition, lease payments under certain of our synthetic lease agreements are determined based on variable interest rates and are, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in addition, we have two outstanding series of unsecured notes held by institutional investors: series a for $85 million accrues interest at 6.38% and series b for $65 million accrues interest at 6.53%. the amount outstanding under these notes as of january 28, 2012 was $150 million. interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have materially impacted our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended january 28, 2012. we do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 29