risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based investments at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with stable value portfolios and money market securities at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices (such as that experienced during the last half of 2008 and first quarter of 2009) would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. global economies. national and international political and economic events may cause financial market declines that lower the value of assets under our management, and may cause investors to withdraw funds. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans, may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-day notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. - 7 - we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. we believe that competition within the investment management industry will intensify as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity and because new competitors face few barriers to entry. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. if we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, management and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. certain of the price funds and other investment portfolios are vulnerable to market-specific risks that could adversely affect investment performance, our reputation and our revenues. several of the price funds and investment portfolios (for example, emerging market investments) are subject to political and economic instability, wide exchange-rate fluctuations, illiquid and highly volatile markets, and other risks that could materially decrease the investment returns available in foreign markets. a significant decrease in the investment return or net asset value of any price fund or investment portfolio could harm our reputation and cause a decrease in assets under management, including client asset withdrawals. the result could be a material decline in our revenues and net income. the performance of our money market funds is dependent on the income from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the fund. when interest rates are at the historic lows that presently exist, the operating costs of the funds will become a greater portion of the portfolio income and reduce the yield of the funds to very low levels. in 2009 and presently, such an environment has caused us to reduce our advisory fees on money market funds in order to maintain yields at or above 0% to fund investors. such actions reduce our advisory fee income and net income. also, bank deposits may become more attractive to investors and money market funds have and could continue to experience redemptions. client losses decrease our revenues and net income. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse affect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, and litigation. operating risks include: failure to properly perform fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, supervision of staff, tax reporting and record retention; and failure to identify excessive trading in mutual funds by our customers or plan participants; - 8 - sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if they are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the united states and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels, variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants and other stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, and inflation, a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our balance sheet, unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad, expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill, and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with the t. rowe price mutual funds, we charge the mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or otherwise are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios, and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. more than 30% of our assets under management are sourced from our largest distribution channel, third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad. these intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their client assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our associates, interrupting our business operations, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. - 9 - we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in our stock, blended asset and bond mutual funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments like those recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. the investment performance of our savings bank subsidiary could adversely affect our assets and results of operations. we have a savings bank subsidiary that accepts time deposits from customers, pays a fixed rate of interest to them, and invests in asset-backed debt securities. although we generally hold these investments to maturity, which generally correlates to the maturities of our customer deposits, fluctuations in credit risk could result in impairments among the bank fixed income investments and, in turn, could result in a mismatch between a lower or negative return on our investment portfolio and the interest paid on our customer deposits. to the extent that this occurs, our assets and results of operations would be adversely affected. we may elect to pursue growth in the united states and abroad through acquisitions or joint ventures, which exposes us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations, expanding into new jurisdictions, and making non-controlling minority investments in other entities. in order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities. we cannot assure that we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. in addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. in january 2010, we completed the acquisition of a 26% investment in uti asset management company (india) and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. we are subject to extensive regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in great britain, and self-regulatory organizations such as finra. the conduct of our business is in large part dictated by adherence to such regulation, including federal laws such as the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the usa patriot act of 2001, the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), regulations relating to the mutual fund industry specifically and securities laws generally, accounting standards, and banking and tax laws. compliance with these complex regulations and our disclosure and financial reporting obligations requires significant investments of time and money and could limit our ability to enter into new lines of business. further, the regulations imposed by one jurisdiction may conflict with the regulations imposed by another, and these differences may be difficult or impossible to reconcile. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, cause a loss of mutual fund investors, and reduce our revenues. because of the recent disclosures of trading abuses and fraudulent investment activities, the collapse of the independent investment banking industry in the u.s., and massive government investment in the u.s. banking and financial system, regulators have shown increasing interest in the oversight of the broad financial and investment industry. federal agencies have adopted some, and proposed other, new regulations designed to strengthen controls and restore investor confidence. more oversight and rules can be expected in the future that could place greater compliance and administrative burdens on us, which likely would increase our expenses without increasing revenues. in addition, new regulations could require the price funds to reduce the level of certain mutual fund fees paid to us or require us to bear additional expenses, - 10 - which would affect our operating results. further, adverse results of regulatory investigations of mutual fund, investment advisory and financial services firms could tarnish the reputation of the financial services industry generally and mutual funds and investment advisers more specifically, causing investors to avoid further fund investments or redeem their account balances. redemptions would decrease the assets under our management, which would reduce our advisory revenues and net income. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot assure that our insurance will cover most liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. our subsidiaries net capital meets or exceeds all minimum requirements; however, a significant operating or investment loss or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. a suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. if we are unable to upgrade our technology in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. our systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, - 11 - subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values like those experienced during the last two years directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues, as well as our investment income and net income. we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments, primarily for purposes other than trading. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk, which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. in conjunction with our signing of the definitive uti purchase agreements in november 2009, we entered into a series of rolling non-deliverable forward contracts to economically hedge the exchange rate exposure relating to the 6.5 billion indian rupee acquisition price. final settlement of these contracts occurred at the closing of the uti acquisition on january 20, 2010. we have not invested in any other derivative financial or commodity instruments. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund lowest net asset value per share during 2009. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all funds experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value potential at % of lower % of potential 12/31/2009 portfolio value portfolio loss stock and blended asset funds $ 404.3 60 $ 225.9 48 $ 178.4 44 % bond funds 273.2 40 244.4 52 28.8 11 % $ 677.5 100 $ 470.3 100 $ 207.2 31 % the comparable potential loss of value presented in our 2008 annual report was $61.5 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $513.5 million that included a net unrealized loss of $17.5 million at december 31, 2008. during 2009, we experienced net gains of $150.8 million, including the recognition of $36.1 million of other than temporary impairments in our non-operating investment loss. because our fund holdings are considered available-for-sale securities, we recognize unrealized losses that are considered temporary in other comprehensive income. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating investment income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. a mutual fund holding with an impairment that has persisted daily throughout the six months between quarter-ends is generally presumed to have an other than temporary impairment unless there is persuasive evidence, such as an increase in value subsequent to quarter end, to overcome that presumption. the amount and timing of any future charge will be dependent on our holdings and future market performance. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also hold other investments of $45.7 million at december 31, 2009, that we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount should market conditions deteriorate. we operate in several foreign countries, most prominent among which is great britain. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in u.s. dollars. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations.risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based investments at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with stable value portfolios and money market securities at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. global economies. national and international political and economic events may cause financial market declines that lower the value of assets under our management, and may cause investors to withdraw funds. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans, may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-day notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. - 8 - we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. we believe that competition within the investment management industry will intensify as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity and because new competitors face few barriers to entry. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. if we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, management and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. certain of the price funds and other investment portfolios are vulnerable to market-specific risks that could adversely affect investment performance, our reputation and our revenues. several of the price funds and investment portfolios (for example, emerging market investments) are subject to political and economic instability, wide exchange-rate fluctuations, illiquid and highly volatile markets, and other risks that could materially decrease the investment returns available in foreign markets. a significant decrease in the investment return or net asset value of any price fund or investment portfolio could harm our reputation and cause a decrease in assets under management, including client asset withdrawals. the result could be a material decline in our revenues and net income. the performance of our money market funds is dependent on the income from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the fund. when interest rates are at the historic lows that presently exist, the operating costs of the funds will become a greater portion of the portfolio income and reduce the yield of the funds to very low levels. in 2010 and presently, such an environment has caused us to waive a portion of our advisory fees on money market funds in order to maintain yields at or above 0% to fund investors. such actions reduce our advisory fee income and net income. also, bank deposits may become more attractive to investors and money market funds have and could continue to experience redemptions. client losses decrease our revenues and net income. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse affect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, and litigation. operating risks include: failure to properly perform fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, supervision of staff, tax reporting and record retention; and failure to identify excessive trading in mutual funds by our customers or plan participants; - 9 - sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if they are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the united states and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels, variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants and other stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, and inflation, a future impairment of our investment in uti, a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our balance sheet, unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad, expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill, and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with the t. rowe price mutual funds, we charge the mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or otherwise are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios, and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. more than 30% of our assets under management are sourced from our largest distribution channel, third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad. these intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their client assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our associates, interrupting our business operations, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. - 10 - we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in our stock, blended asset and bond mutual funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. the investment performance of our savings bank subsidiary could adversely affect our assets and results of operations. we have a savings bank subsidiary that accepts time deposits from customers, pays a fixed rate of interest to them, and invests in asset-backed debt securities. although we generally hold these investments to maturity, which generally correlates to the maturities of our customer deposits, fluctuations in credit risk could result in impairments among the bank fixed income investments and, in turn, could result in a mismatch between a lower or negative return on our investment portfolio and the interest paid on our customer deposits. to the extent that this occurs, our assets and results of operations would be adversely affected. we may elect to pursue growth in the united states and abroad through acquisitions or joint ventures, which exposes us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations, expanding into new jurisdictions, and making non-controlling minority investments in other entities. in order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities. we cannot assure that we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. in addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. in january 2010, we completed the acquisition of a 26% investment in uti asset management company (india) and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. we are subject to extensive regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in the united kingdom, and self-regulatory organizations such as finra. the conduct of our business is in large part dictated by adherence to such regulation, including federal laws such as the dodd-frank act of 2010, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the usa patriot act of 2001, the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), regulations relating to the mutual fund industry specifically and securities laws generally, accounting standards, and banking and tax laws. compliance with these complex regulations and our disclosure and financial reporting obligations requires significant investments of time and money and could limit our ability to enter into new lines of business. further, the regulations imposed by one jurisdiction may conflict with the regulations imposed by another, and these differences may be difficult or impossible to reconcile. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. - 11 - legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, cause a loss of mutual fund investors, and reduce our revenues. as a result of the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009 and the significant turmoil in the investment banking, banking and financial services industry, including the need for government intervention, regulators both in and outside the united states have shown increasing interest in the oversight of the broad financial and investment industry. some of the newly adopted and proposed regulations are focused directly on the investment management industry, while others are more broadly focused but in many cases will impact our industry as well. these new laws and regulations can be expected to place greater compliance and administrative burdens on us, which likely would increase our expenses without increasing revenues and could adversely impact our business operations. in addition, new regulations could require the price funds to reduce the level of certain mutual fund fees paid to us or require us to bear additional expenses, which would affect our operating results. further, adverse results of regulatory investigations of mutual fund, investment advisory and financial services firms could tarnish the reputation of the financial services industry generally and mutual funds and investment advisers more specifically, causing investors to avoid further fund investments or redeem their account balances. redemptions would decrease the assets under our management, which would reduce our advisory revenues and net income. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot assure that our insurance will cover most liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. our subsidiaries net capital meets or exceeds all minimum requirements; however, a significant operating or investment loss or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. - 12 - all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. a suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. if we are unable to upgrade our technology in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. our systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values like those experienced during periods in 2008 and 2009 directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues, as well as our investment income and net income. we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments, primarily for purposes other than trading. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk, which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. upon the closing of our equity purchase of uti, we also settled the series of rolling non-deliverable forward contracts used to economically hedge the foreign currency exchange rate exposure relating to the acquisition price. we did not invest in any other derivative financial or commodity instruments in 2010. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year-end using each fund lowest net asset value per share during 2010. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all funds experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value percentage potential percentage at of lower of december 31, 2010 portfolio value portfolio potential loss stock and blended asset funds $ 460.3 62 % $ 360.2 56 % $ 100.1 22 % bond funds 287.6 38 % 278.6 44 % 9.0 3 % $ 747.9 100 % $ 638.8 100 % $ 109.1 15 % the comparable potential loss of value presented in our 2009 annual report was $207.2 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $677.5 million. during 2010, we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $67.9 million. because our fund holdings are considered available-for-sale securities, we recognize unrealized losses that are considered temporary in other comprehensive income. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating investment income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. a mutual fund holding with an impairment that has persisted daily throughout the six months between quarter-ends is generally presumed to have an other than temporary impairment unless there is persuasive evidence, such as an increase in value subsequent to quarter end, to overcome that presumption. the amount and timing of any future charge will be dependent on our holdings and future market performance. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also hold other investments of $209.7 million, including our $154.1 million investment in uti asset management company ltd, at december 31, 2010. given the nature of uti business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. we operate in several foreign countries, most prominent among which is the united kingdom. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in u.s. dollars. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. - 23 -quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines of financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. the following table (in thousands of dollars) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund's lowest fair value per share during the prior twelve months. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. 21 fair value at potential december 31, % of lower % of potential loss 2001 portfolio value portfolio of value ------------- --------- --------- --------- -------------- stock funds domestic $ 64,276 52 $ 52,973 49 $ 11,303 18% international 11,960 10 9,926 9 2,034 17 -------- --- -------- --- ---------- total 76,236 62 62,899 58 13,337 17 blended funds 5,726 5 5,235 5 491 9 bond funds 41,285 33 39,456 37 1,829 4 -------- --- -------- --- ---------- $ 123,247 100 $ 107,590 100 $ 15,657 13 ======== === ======== === ========== the comparable potential loss of value shown in last year's annual report was $17 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $190 million at the end of 2000. during 2001, we had net unrealized losses of $14 million in the value of our fund investments. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as deemed appropriate by management. interest rates on our outstanding debt under the credit facility expiring in june 2005 are reset at one- to six-month intervals. our borrowing rate on this debt decreased from 6.4% on january 8, 2001 to 2.18% on january 14, 2002 as the u.s. federal reserve bank cut short-term interest rates throughout 2001. should our cost of funds increase back to the 6.4% that we experienced about 12 months ago, and we make no repayments of principal on the existing outstanding balance of $90 million, our interest expense for a full year would increase by $3.8 million. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would decrease about $250,000. the u.s. dollar strengthened against the japanese yen again in 2001, and an exchange rate gain was recognized on our yen borrowing. in evaluating exchange rate sensitivity, a loss of $1.4 million would be recognized if the yen strengthened 10% from december 31, 2001. other foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are not material. 22quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. page 21 the following table (in thousands of dollars) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund's lowest fair value per share during the past year. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persist; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value at potential december 31, % of lower % of 2002 portfolio value portfolio potential loss ------------- --------- --------- --------- --------------- stock funds $ 72,929 59 $ 63,799 60 $ 9,130 13% bond funds 50,243 41 43,203 40 7,040 14 -------- --- -------- --- ------- $123,172 100 $107,002 100 $16,170 13 ======== === ======== === ======= the comparable potential loss of value shown in last year's annual report was $15.7 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $123.2 million at the end of 2001. during 2002, we actually experienced net unrealized losses of $10.2 million in the value of our fund investments. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as deemed appropriate by management. interest rates on our outstanding debt under the credit facility expiring in june 2005 are reset at one- to six-month intervals. our borrowing rate on this debt is presently only 1.76%. should our cost of funds increase back to the 7.1% that we experienced in early 2001, and we make no repayments of principal on the existing outstanding balance of $42 million, our interest expense for a full year would increase by $2.2 million. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. the u.s. dollar weakened versus the japanese yen again in 2002, and an exchange rate loss was recognized on our yen borrowing. in evaluating exchange rate sensitivity, a loss of $1.3 million would be recognized if the yen strengthened 10% from december 31, 2002. other foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are not material. we also make other investments that we include in our balance sheet in other assets. we are at risk for further losses on these investments should market conditions deteriorate as they have in the past three years. at december 31, 2002, we hold investments in a sponsored high-yield collateralized bond obligation issued in 2001 that is recognized in our balance sheet at $10 million and in private equity and other entities totaling nearly $7 million. during 2002, we recognized nearly $6.4 million of losses on these investments and similar ones that we previously held. page 22 our risk of future loss on these investments cannot exceed the $17 million recognized in our balance sheet. additionally, we have recognized our 10% interest in daiwa sb investments (japan) at $15 million using the cost basis of accounting. our market risk on this investment is primarily limited to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the japanese yen because the functional currency of daiwa sb investments is the yen.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. the following table (in thousands of dollars) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund lowest fair value per share during the past year. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persist; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value at potential december 31, % of lower % of 2003 portfolio value portfolio potential loss stock funds $ 106,728 66 $ 79,615 63 $ 27,113 25 % bond funds 55,555 34 47,605 37 7,950 14 $ 162,283 100 $ 127,220 100 $ 35,063 22 the comparable potential loss of value shown in last year annual report was $16.1 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $123.2 million at the end of 2002. during 2003, we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $32.4 million as positive market conditions significantly improved the value of our fund investments. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many page 22 domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as deemed appropriate by management. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also make other investments that we include in our balance sheet in other assets. we are at risk for losses on these investments should market conditions deteriorate. at december 31, 2003, we hold a $4.5 million investment in a sponsored high-yield collateralized bond obligation and investments totaling $6.1 million in private equity and other entities. our risk of future loss on these investments cannot exceed the $10.6 million recognized in our balance sheet. additionally, we have recognized our 10% interest in daiwa sb investments (japan) at $15 million using the cost basis of accounting. our market risk on this investment is primarily limited to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the japanese yen because the functional currency of daiwa sb investments is the yen. the u.s. dollar weakened versus the currencies of several foreign countries in which we operate, most prominent among which is great britain. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenue stream is predominately realized in u.s. dollar receipts. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially impact our results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. page 21 of 45 we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. the following table (in thousands of dollars) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund lowest fair value per share during 2004. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value at potential december 31, % of lower % of potential 2004 portfolio value portfolio loss stock funds $ 134,445 62 $ 112,407 60 $ 22,038 16 % bond funds 80,714 38 73,432 40 7,282 9 % $ 215,159 100 $ 185,839 100 $ 29,320 14 % the comparable potential loss of value shown in last year annual report was $35 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $162 million at the end of 2003. during 2004, we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $21 million as positive market conditions significantly improved the value of our fund investments over the course of the year. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as deemed appropriate by management. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also make other investments that we include in our balance sheet in other assets. we are at risk for losses on these investments should market conditions deteriorate. at december 31, 2004, we hold a $1.2 million investment in a sponsored high-yield collateralized bond obligation and investments totaling $5.3 million in private equity and other entities. our risk of future loss on these investments cannot exceed the $6.5 million recognized in our balance sheet. additionally, we have recognized our yen investment in a 10% interest of daiwa sb investments (japan) at $15 million using the historical cost basis of accounting. our market risk on this investment is primarily limited to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the japanese yen. the u.s. dollar weakened versus the currencies of several foreign countries in which we operate, most prominent among which is great britain. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and page 22 of 45 liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenue stream is predominately realized in u.s. dollar receipts. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially impact our results of operations.risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in our other periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based investments at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with money market securities at the low end and non-u.s. bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. general market declines. a general downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisors based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. global economies. national and international political and economic events may cause financial market declines that lower the value of assets under our management, and may cause investors to withdraw funds. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, retirement savings trends may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period. -8- a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-day notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of products or operate in more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, our investment performance, and the scope and quality of our investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. we believe that competition within the investment management industry will increase as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity and because new competitors face few barriers to entry. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. if we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, management and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. financial services professionals are in high demand, and we face significant competition for qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. certain of the price funds and other investment portfolios are vulnerable to market-specific risks that could adversely affect investment performance, our reputation and our revenues. several of the price funds and investment portfolios, particularly the emerging market and non-u.s. investments, are subject to political and economic instability, exchange-rate fluctuations, illiquid and highly volatile markets, and other risks that could materially decrease the investment returns available in foreign markets. a significant decrease in the investment return or net asset value of any price fund or investment portfolio could harm our reputation and cause a decrease in assets under management, including from client asset withdrawals. the result could be a material decline in our revenues and net income. -9- our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse affect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, and litigation. operating risks include: failure to properly perform fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, tax reporting and record retention; and failure to identify excessive trading in mutual funds by our customers or plan participants; sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if they are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the united states and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels, variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants, stock awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors, a future impairment of goodwill recognized in our balance sheet, material fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad, expenses and capital costs incurred to enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill, and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with our mutual funds, we charge our mutual funds certain administrative and other expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or otherwise are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. -10- we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios, and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. about 30% of our assets under management are sourced from third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad. these intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and the related client assets under management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and net income by: decreasing investment returns on our portfolios, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, inflicting losses in human capital, interrupting our business operations, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace facilities, and restore operations. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans to deal with these possible events but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose any employees, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in our money market, stock, and bond mutual funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our income from these investments could be adversely affected by a decline in value. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our investment portfolio, including the impact of market conditions, liquid corporate positions, and the size of our longer-term investment portfolio. fluctuations in other investment income can be expected to occur in the future. the investment performance of our savings bank subsidiary could adversely affect our assets and results of operations. we have a propriety savings bank subsidiary, which accepts deposits from our customers, pays a fixed rate of interest to our depositors and invests in fixed income securities. although we generally hold our fixed income investments to maturity on a basis which correlates to the maturities of our customer deposits, fluctuations in interest rates could result in losses in these fixed income investments and could result in a mismatch between the interest rate return on our investment portfolio and the interest paid on our customer deposits. to the extent that this occurs, our assets and results of operations could be adversely affected. -11- we may elect to pursue growth in the united states and abroad through acquisitions or joint ventures, which exposes us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations and in expanding into new jurisdictions. in order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities. we cannot assure that we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. in addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including: additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, different facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse affects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. legal and regulatory risks compliance with a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. we are subject to extensive regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in united kingdom, and self-regulatory organizations such as the nasd. our ability to conduct our business is in large part dictated by such regulation, including federal laws such as the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the usa patriot act of 2001, the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), regulations relating to the mutual fund industry specifically and securities laws generally, accounting rules, and banking and tax laws. compliance with these complex regulations and our disclosure and financial reporting obligations requires significant investments of time and money and could limit our ability to enter into new lines of business. further, the regulations imposed by one jurisdiction may conflict with the regulations imposed by another, and these differences may be difficult or impossible to reconcile. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation, and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, cause a loss of mutual fund investors, and reduce our revenues. because of trading abuses at several investment management firms, regulators have shown increasing interest in the oversight of the mutual fund and investment advisory industry. federal agencies have adopted regulations designed to strengthen controls and restore investor confidence in the industry and more rules are expected in the future. these new and proposed rules will place greater compliance and administrative burdens on us, which could increase our expenses without increasing revenues. in addition, proposed regulations could require the price funds to reduce the level of certain mutual fund fees paid to us or require us to bear additional expenses, which would affect our operating results. further, adverse results of regulatory investigations of mutual fund and investment advisory firms could tarnish the reputation of mutual funds and investment advisers generally, causing investors to avoid further fund investments or redeem their balances. redemptions would decrease the assets under our management, which would reduce our advisory revenues and net income. we may in the future be involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. there has been increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. -12- we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot assure that our insurance will cover all liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available on acceptable terms. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or other co-insurance liability, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. our subsidiaries net capital meets or exceeds all minimum requirements; however, a significant operating loss or extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including, among other functions: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. a suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. if we are unable to upgrade our technology in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. our systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. -22- the following table (in thousands of dollars) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund lowest fair value per share during 2005. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value at potential december 31, % of lower % of 2005 portfolio value portfolio potential loss stock funds $ 185,877 70 $ 159,317 68 $ 26,560 14 % bond funds 78,361 30 76,167 32 2,194 3 % $ 264,238 100 $ 235,484 100 $ 28,754 11 % the comparable potential loss of value presented in our 2004 annual report was $29 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $215 million at december 31, 2004. during 2005, we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $12 million. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as deemed appropriate by management. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also have other investments of $7.5 million at december 31, 2005 that are included in our balance sheet in other assets. we are at risk for losses on these investments should market conditions deteriorate; however, our risk of future loss on these investments cannot exceed the amount recognized in our balance sheet. additionally, we recognize our yen investment in a 10% interest of daiwa sb investments (japan) at $15 million using the historical cost basis of accounting. our market risk on this investment is primarily limited to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the japanese yen. we operate in several foreign countries, most prominent among which is great britain. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenue stream is predominately realized in u.s. dollar receipts. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially impact our results of operations.risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in our other periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based investments at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with money market securities at the low end and non-u.s. bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. general market declines. a general downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisors based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. global economies. national and international political and economic events may cause financial market declines that lower the value of assets under our management, and may cause investors to withdraw funds. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, retirement savings trends may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period. - 7 - a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-day notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of products or operate in more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, our investment performance, and the scope and quality of our investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. we believe that competition within the investment management industry will increase as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity and because new competitors face few barriers to entry. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential clients decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. if we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, management and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. financial services professionals are in high demand, and we face significant competition for qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. certain of the price funds and other investment portfolios are vulnerable to market-specific risks that could adversely affect investment performance, our reputation and our revenues. several of the price funds and investment portfolios, particularly the emerging market and non-u.s. investments, are subject to political and economic instability, exchange-rate fluctuations, illiquid and highly volatile markets, and other risks that could materially decrease the investment returns available in foreign markets. a significant decrease in the investment return or net asset value of any price fund or investment portfolio could harm our reputation and cause a decrease in assets under management, including from client asset withdrawals. the result could be a material decline in our revenues and net income. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse effect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, and litigation. - 8 - operating risks include: failure to properly perform fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, tax reporting and record retention; and failure to identify excessive trading in mutual funds by our customers or plan participants; sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if they are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the united states and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels, variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants, stock awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors, a future impairment of the goodwill that is recognized in our balance sheet, material fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad, expenses and capital costs incurred to enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill, and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with our mutual funds, we charge our mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or otherwise are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios, and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. about 30% of our assets under management are sourced from third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad. these intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and the related client assets under management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and net income by: decreasing investment returns on our portfolios, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, inflicting losses in human capital, interrupting our business operations, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace facilities, and restore operations. - 9 - we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose availability of our employees to a significant degree, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to fully maintain our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in our money market, stock, and bond mutual funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our income from these investments could be adversely affected by a decline in value. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our investment portfolio, including the impact of market conditions, liquid corporate positions, and the size of our longer-term investment portfolio. fluctuations in other investment income can be expected to occur in the future. the investment performance of our savings bank subsidiary could adversely affect our assets and results of operations. we have a proprietary savings bank subsidiary, which accepts deposits from our customers, pays a fixed rate of interest to our depositors and invests in fixed income securities. although we generally hold our fixed income investments to maturity on a basis which correlates to the maturities of our customer deposits, fluctuations in interest rates could result in other-than-temporary impairments among the fixed income investments and could result in a mismatch between the interest rate return on our investment portfolio and the interest paid on our customer deposits. to the extent that this occurs, our assets and results of operations could be adversely affected. we may elect to pursue growth in the united states and abroad through acquisitions or joint ventures, which exposes us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations and in expanding into new jurisdictions. in order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities. we cannot assure that we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. in addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including: additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, different facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. legal and regulatory risks compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. we are subject to extensive regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in united kingdom, and self-regulatory organizations such as the nasd. our ability to conduct our business is in large part dictated by such regulation, including federal laws such as the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the usa patriot act of 2001, the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), regulations relating to the mutual fund industry specifically and securities laws generally, accounting standards, and banking and tax laws. compliance with these complex regulations and our disclosure and financial reporting obligations requires significant investments of time and money and could limit our ability to enter into new lines of business. further, the regulations imposed by one jurisdiction may conflict with the regulations imposed by another, and these differences may be difficult or impossible to reconcile. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation, and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, cause a loss of mutual fund investors, and reduce our revenues. because of trading abuses at several investment management firms, regulators have shown increasing interest in the oversight of the mutual fund and investment advisory industry. federal agencies have adopted regulations designed to strengthen controls and restore investor confidence in the industry and more rules are expected in the future. these new and proposed rules will place greater compliance and administrative burdens on us, which could increase our expenses without increasing revenues. in addition, proposed regulations could require the price funds to reduce the level of certain mutual fund fees paid to us or require us to bear additional expenses, which would affect our operating results. further, adverse results of regulatory investigations of mutual fund and investment advisory firms could tarnish the reputation of mutual funds and investment advisers generally, causing investors to avoid further fund investments or redeem their balances. redemptions would decrease the assets under our management, which would reduce our advisory revenues and net income. - 10 - we may in the future be involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. there has been increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot assure that our insurance will cover all liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available on acceptable terms. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. our subsidiaries net capital meets or exceeds all minimum requirements; however, a significant operating loss or extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including, among other functions: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. a suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. if we are unable to upgrade our technology in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. our systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. - 11 - quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. - 18 - we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk, which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund lowest fair value per share during 2006. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value at potential december 31, % of lower % of potential 2006 portfolio value portfolio loss stock and blended asset funds $ 409.8 74 $ 352.5 72 $ 57.3 14 % bond funds 144.6 26 137.6 28 7.0 5 % $ 554.4 100 $ 490.1 100 $ 64.3 12 % the comparable potential loss of value presented in our 2005 annual report was $28.8 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $264.2 million at december 31, 2005. during 2006, we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $38.0 million. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also hold other investments of $81.8 million at december 31, 2006, that we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount should market conditions deteriorate. u.s. treasury holdings, generally considered to be of the lowest risk profile, account for $55.6 million of these investments. we operate in several foreign countries, most prominent among which is great britain. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenue stream is predominately realized in u.s. dollar receipts. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations.risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based investments at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with money market securities at the low end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. general market declines. a general downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. global economies. national and international political and economic events may cause financial market declines that lower the value of assets under our management, and may cause investors to withdraw funds. - 7 - investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, retirement savings trends may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-day notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. we believe that competition within the investment management industry will increase as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity and because new competitors face few barriers to entry. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. if we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, management and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. financial services professionals are in high demand, and we face significant competition for qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. - 8 - certain of the price funds and other investment portfolios are vulnerable to market-specific risks that could adversely affect investment performance, our reputation and our revenues. several of the price funds and investment portfolios (for example, emerging market investments) are subject to political and economic instability, wide exchange-rate fluctuations, illiquid and highly volatile markets, and other risks that could materially decrease the investment returns available in foreign markets. a significant decrease in the investment return or net asset value of any price fund or investment portfolio could harm our reputation and cause a decrease in assets under management, including client asset withdrawals. the result could be a material decline in our revenues and net income. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse affect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, and litigation. operating risks include: failure to properly perform fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, tax reporting and record retention; and failure to identify excessive trading in mutual funds by our customers or plan participants; sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if they are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the united states and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels, variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants and other stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors, a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our balance sheet, material fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad, expenses and capital costs incurred to enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill, and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with our mutual funds, we charge our mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or otherwise are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios, and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. more than 30% of our assets under management are sourced from our largest distribution channel, third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad. these intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their client assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. - 9 - natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, inflicting losses in human capital, interrupting our business operations, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose any employees, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in our stock, bond, and blended asset mutual funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our income from these investments could be adversely affected by a decline in value. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income can be expected to occur in the future. the investment performance of our savings bank subsidiary could adversely affect our assets and results of operations. we have a savings bank subsidiary that accepts time deposits from customers, pays a fixed rate of interest to them, and invests in asset-backed debt securities. although we generally hold these investments to maturity on a basis which correlates to the maturities of our customer deposits, fluctuations in interest rates could result in other-than-temporary impairments among the fixed income investments and could result in a mismatch between the interest rate return on our investment portfolio and the interest paid on our customer deposits. to the extent that this occurs, our assets and results of operations could be adversely affected. we may elect to pursue growth in the united states and abroad through acquisitions or joint ventures, which exposes us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations and in expanding into new jurisdictions. in order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities. we cannot assure that we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. in addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. legal and regulatory risks compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. we are subject to extensive regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in great britain, and self-regulatory organizations such as the financial industry regulatory authority (finra). the conduct of our business is in large part dictated by adherence to such regulation, including federal laws such as the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the usa patriot act of 2001, the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), regulations relating to the mutual fund industry specifically and securities laws generally, accounting standards, and banking and tax laws. compliance with these complex regulations and our disclosure and financial reporting obligations requires significant investments of time and money and could limit our ability to enter into new lines of business. further, the regulations imposed by one jurisdiction may conflict with the regulations imposed by another, and these differences may be difficult or impossible to reconcile. - 10 - our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation, and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, cause a loss of mutual fund investors, and reduce our revenues. because of trading abuses that were uncovered earlier this decade at several investment management firms, regulators have shown increasing interest in the oversight of the mutual fund and investment advisory industry. federal agencies have adopted regulations designed to strengthen controls and restore investor confidence in the industry and more rules can be expected in the future that could place greater compliance and administrative burdens on us, which could increase our expenses without increasing revenues. in addition, new regulations could require the price funds to reduce the level of certain mutual fund fees paid to us or require us to bear additional expenses, which would affect our operating results. further, adverse results of regulatory investigations of mutual fund and investment advisory firms could tarnish the reputation of mutual funds and investment advisers generally, causing investors to avoid further fund investments or redeem their balances. redemptions would decrease the assets under our management, which would reduce our advisory revenues and net income. we may in the future be involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot assure that our insurance will cover all liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available on acceptable terms. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. our subsidiaries net capital meets or exceeds all minimum requirements; however, a significant operating loss or extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including, among other functions: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. a suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. if we are unable to upgrade our technology in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. - 11 - we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. our systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income. we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments, primarily for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk, which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund lowest fair value per share during 2007. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value potential at % of lower % of potential 12/31/2007 portfolio value portfolio loss stock and blended asset funds $ 541.3 70 $ 484.6 69 $ 56.7 10.5 % bond funds 229.9 30 218.8 31 11.1 4.8 % $ 771.2 100 $ 703.4 100 $ 67.8 8.8 % the comparable potential loss of value presented in our 2006 annual report was $64.3 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $554.4 million at december 31, 2006. during 2007, we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $43.9 million. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also hold other investments of $102.3 million at december 31, 2007, that we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount should market conditions deteriorate. u.s. treasury holdings, generally considered to be of the lowest risk profile, account for $70.6 million of these investments. we operate in several foreign countries, most prominent among which is great britain. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in u.s. dollars. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations.risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time-to-time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based investments at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with stable value portfolios and money market securities at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices (such as that ongoing since the last half of 2008 characterized by recessionary concerns, unemployment and lack of available credit) would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. global economies. national and international political and economic events may cause financial market declines that lower the value of assets under our management, and may cause investors to withdraw funds. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans, may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. -7- we provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-day notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. we believe that competition within the investment management industry will increase as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity and because new competitors face few barriers to entry. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. if we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, management and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. certain of the price funds and other investment portfolios are vulnerable to market-specific risks that could adversely affect investment performance, our reputation and our revenues. several of the price funds and investment portfolios (for example, emerging market investments) are subject to political and economic instability, wide exchange-rate fluctuations, illiquid and highly volatile markets, and other risks that could materially decrease the investment returns available in foreign markets. a significant decrease in the investment return or net asset value of any price fund or investment portfolio could harm our reputation and cause a decrease in assets under management, including client asset withdrawals. the result could be a material decline in our revenues and net income. the performance of our money market funds is dependent on the income from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the fund. when interest rates are at the historic lows that presently exist, the operating costs of the funds will absorb a greater portion of the portfolio income and reduce the yield of the funds to very low levels. in this environment, bank deposits may become more attractive to investors and our money market funds could suffer redemptions. client losses would decrease our revenues and net income. -8- our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse affect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, and litigation. operating risks include: failure to properly perform fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, tax reporting and record retention; and failure to identify excessive trading in mutual funds by our customers or plan participants; sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if they are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the united states and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels, variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants and other stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, and inflation, a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our balance sheet, material fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad, expenses and capital costs incurred to enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development, unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill, and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with the t. rowe price mutual funds, we charge the mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or otherwise are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios, and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. more than 30% of our assets under management are sourced from our largest distribution channel, third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad. these intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their client assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. -9- natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, inflicting losses in human capital, interrupting our business operations, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose any employees, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in our stock, blended asset and bond mutual funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments like those recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income can be expected to occur in the future. the investment performance of our savings bank subsidiary could adversely affect our assets and results of operations. we have a savings bank subsidiary that accepts time deposits from customers, pays a fixed rate of interest to them, and invests in asset-backed debt securities. although we generally hold these investments to maturity, which generally correlates to the maturities of our customer deposits, fluctuations in credit risk could result in other-than-temporary impairments among the fixed income investments and, in turn, could result in a mismatch between the return on our investment portfolio and the interest paid on our customer deposits. to the extent that this occurs, our assets and results of operations could be adversely affected. we may elect to pursue growth in the united states and abroad through acquisitions or joint ventures, which exposes us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations and in expanding into new jurisdictions. in order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities. we cannot assure that we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. in addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. legal and regulatory risks compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. we are subject to extensive regulation by foreign and domestic governments, regulatory agencies such as the sec in the united states and the fsa in great britain, and self-regulatory organizations such as finra. the conduct of our business is in large part dictated by adherence to such regulation, including federal laws such as the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the usa patriot act of 2001, the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), regulations relating to the mutual fund industry specifically and securities laws generally, accounting standards, and banking and tax laws. compliance with these complex regulations and our disclosure and financial reporting obligations requires significant investments of time and money and could limit our ability to enter into new lines of business. further, the regulations imposed by one jurisdiction may conflict with the regulations imposed by another, and these differences may be difficult or impossible to reconcile. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations. -10- if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, cause a loss of mutual fund investors, and reduce our revenues. because of the recent exposure of trading abuses and fraudulent investment activities, the collapse of the independent investment banking industry in the u.s., and massive government investment in the u.s. banking and financial system, regulators have shown increasing interest in the oversight of the broad financial and investment industry. federal agencies have adopted regulations designed to strengthen controls and restore investor confidence and more oversight and rules can be expected in the future that could place greater compliance and administrative burdens on us, which likely would increase our expenses without increasing revenues. in addition, new regulations could require the price funds to reduce the level of certain mutual fund fees paid to us or require us to bear additional expenses, which would affect our operating results. further, adverse results of regulatory investigations of mutual fund, investment advisory and financial services firms could tarnish the reputation of the financial services industry generally and mutual funds and investment advisers more specifically, causing investors to avoid further fund investments or redeem their balances. redemptions would decrease the assets under our management, which would reduce our advisory revenues and net income. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot assure that our insurance will cover most liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. our subsidiaries net capital meets or exceeds all minimum requirements; however, a significant operating or investment loss or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. a suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. if we are unable to upgrade our technology in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. -11- we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. our systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under our management. accordingly, declines in financial market values like those experienced since september 2008 directly and negatively impact our investment advisory revenues, as well as our investment income and net income. we invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive financial instruments, primarily for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in derivative financial or commodity instruments. mutual fund investments have inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk, which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. -20- the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year end using each fund lowest net asset value per share during 2008. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all funds experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value potential at % of lower % of potential 12/31/2008 portfolio value portfolio loss stock and blended asset funds $ 314.8 61 $ 265.2 59 $ 49.6 15.8 % bond funds 198.7 39 186.8 41 11.9 6.0 % $ 513.5 100 $ 452.0 100 $ 61.5 12.0 % the comparable potential loss of value presented in our 2007 annual report was $67.8 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $771.2 million that included a net unrealized gain of $147 million at december 31, 2007. during 2008, we actually experienced net losses of $254.7 million, including $91.3 million of other than temporary impairments recognized in our non-operating investment income (loss). financial market conditions have recently been extremely volatile and financial security valuations have declined. similarly, our portfolio of investments in sponsored mutual funds at december 31, 2008, includes a net unrealized loss of $17.5 million, including gross unrealized losses totaling $40.3 million. unrealized losses incurred in the second half of 2008 totaling $30.1 million on investments valued at $115.9 million at december 31, 2008, have been temporarily impaired on a continuous basis from september 30, 2008. the remaining unrealized losses totaling $10.2 million were incurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 on fund investments valued at $79.3 million. because our fund holdings are considered available-for-sale securities, we recognize unrealized losses that are considered temporary in other comprehensive income. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating investment income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. a mutual fund holding with an impairment that has persisted daily throughout the six months between quarter-ends is generally presumed to have an other than temporary impairment unless there is persuasive evidence, such as an increase in value subsequent to quarter end, to overcome that presumption. it is possible that we will determine at march 31, 2009, or at a subsequent quarter end, that unrealized losses in one or more of our mutual fund investments have become other-than-temporary impairments. we could also sell our fund positions before a subsequent quarter-end reporting date and recognize in our income statement previously unrealized losses. the amount and timing of any subsequent charge will be dependent on future market performance. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also hold other investments of $41.9 million at december 31, 2008, that we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount should market conditions deteriorate. we operate in several foreign countries, most prominent among which is great britain. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in u.s. dollars. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations.risk factors 9 competition. as a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. a significant number of proprietary and other sponsors' mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks and insurance companies. we compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, mutual fund companies, and other financial institutions in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. many of these financial institutions have substantially page 8 table of contents greater resources than we do. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. in order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship. employees. at december 31, 2012 , we employed 5,372 associates, up 2% from the 5,255 associates employed at the end of 2011 . we may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual fund administrative services. available information. our internet address is www.troweprice.com. at our investor relations website, http://trow.client.shareholder.com, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. our goal is to maintain the investor relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including: our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the sec; our financial statement information from our periodic sec filings in the form of xbrl data files that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis; corporate governance information including our charter, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, code of ethics and conduct and other governance-related policies; other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and opportunities to sign up for email alerts and rss feeds to have information pushed in real time. the information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. item 1a. risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds distributed in the u.s. and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based investments at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with stable value portfolios and money market securities at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. page 9 table of contents general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans, may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. international exposure. our managed portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. the performance of our money market funds is impacted by the historically low interest rate environment. our money market funds performance or yield is dependent on the income earned from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the fund. when interest rates are at the historic lows that presently exist, the operating costs of the funds will become a greater portion of the portfolio's income, thereby reducing the yield of the funds to very low levels. since the second half of 2009 and presently, such an environment has led us to voluntarily waive a portion of our advisory fee earned on our money market funds in order to maintain yields at or above 0% for fund investors. such actions reduce our advisory fee income and net income. the actual amount of fees waived is dependent on a number of variables including, among others, changes in the net assets held by our money market funds, changes in market yields, changes in the expense levels of the funds, and our willingness to voluntarily continue such fee waivers. also, bank deposits may become more attractive to investors and money market funds could experience significant redemptions, which could decrease our revenues and net income. see our discussion under results of operations in our management discussion and analysis related to fees waived in the current period, management's expectation as to future fee waivers and the net cash flows of our money market funds. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: page 10 table of contents asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. in the event that we were to decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, management and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse effect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, litigation, and a decrease in revenues. operating risks include: failure to properly perform fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, supervision of staff, tax reporting and record retention; and failure to identify excessive trading in mutual funds by our customers or plan participants; and sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. page 11 table of contents we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if they are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the u.s. and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants and other stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, and inflation; a future impairment of investments recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with the t. rowe price mutual funds, we charge the mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or otherwise are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. while we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any of our sponsored investment products, any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income . we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. these contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client's needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their client assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, page 12 table of contents causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our associates, interrupting our business operations, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. a significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the baltimore, maryland region and in london, england. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in sponsored stock, blended asset and bond funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. our savings bank subsidiary subjects us to investment credit risk by maintaining a portfolio of investments in asset-backed debt securities with maturity schedules intended to correspond with customer time deposit maturity dates. in the event that underlying securities are impaired in maturity value or do not yield returns in excess of customer deposit interest payments, our assets and results of operations would be adversely affected. we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. we own a 26% investment in uti asset management company ltd (uti), an indian asset management company and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the u.s. and have an equity investment in uti. our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: difficulty in managing, operating and marketing our international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses and assets in our u.s. dollar based financial statements; and significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. page 13 table of contents legal and regulatory risks. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of mutual fund investors or clients. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. for example, the volcker rule as currently proposed has led us to continue to evaluate whether it remains prudent to maintain our savings bank subsidiary in light of the potential restrictions the rule could place on our other business activities. although our savings bank operation is not material to the operating results of the company, the final terms of the rule are not yet settled and uncertainty related to how it may apply to our funds and affiliates could negatively impact our ability to launch and seed new funds if we continue to maintain a savings bank affiliate. additionally, aspects of the rule present the risk that liquidity in capital markets may be impacted, and it may be more difficult or costly to execute certain security transactions on behalf of our clients. potential impacts of other current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: the federal reserve board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank systemically important financial institutions ( sifis ). it has been suggested by some that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as sifis. we do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed sifis. further, we do not believe sifi designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. if, however, any t. rowe price fund or t. rowe price affiliate is deemed a sifi, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements. it is expected that additional money market fund reform will be proposed in the near future. proposed reforms could require funds to adopt floating navs or various capital buffers or redemption restrictions. adoption of any such reforms could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors, or the willingness of the firm to sponsor such products. the commodity futures trading commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of mutual funds and certain other products we sponsor to use commodities, futures, swaps and other derivatives without additional registration. although we do not anticipate the need to register at this time, if our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration. the sec has proposed new municipal adviser registration rules as a result of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ("dodd-frank"). it is uncertain at this point what the full impact of these new rules will be on our business, but it is expected, if adopted as proposed, that certain affiliates would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and incur costs to ensure compliance with these requirements. the u.k. financial services bill will fundamentally transform financial services regulation in the u.k. although the new regulatory architecture will likely have an impact on the manner in which our u.k. subsidiary is supervised, we do not believe there will be substantive changes to the conduct of business rules to which we are subject. however, the operations of our u.k. subsidiary could be impacted to the extent the nature of our supervision or the substance of such rules change. there has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. global regulations on otc derivatives are evolving, including proposed rules under dodd-frank and european market infrastructure regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting and repositories. there remains uncertainty related to the requirements under these new regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients. we are subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate outside the u.s., including pan-european directives, such as the alternative investment fund management directive ( aifmd ). the aifmd has not page 14 table of contents yet been implemented and interpretations of certain provisions are not yet final. depending on such interpretations, the aifmd may impact remuneration policies, capital requirements, and the manner in which affiliated entities provide services to funds covered by the directive. we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. however, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. they may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. the changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been an increase of litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims and class action suits alleging substantial monetary damages. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all minimum requirements; however, a significant operating or investment loss or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. page 15 table of contents all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks such as hacking or viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. a suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. if we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. our systems or our third-party service providers' systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of fund shares. we have chosen to use a variant of each fund's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk as we believe that the volatility in each fund's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each fund's investment objective. the potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of our fund investments at year-end was determined by using the lower of each fund's lowest net asset value per share during 2012 or its net asset value per share at december 31, 2012 reduced by 10%. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all funds experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value 12/31/2012 percentage of portfolio potential lower value percentage of portfolio potential loss stock and blended asset funds $ 515.8 45 % $ 431.6 44 % $ 84.2 16 % bond funds 624.3 55 % 554.7 56 % 69.6 11 % $ 1,140.1 100 % $ 986.3 100 % $ 153.8 13 % the comparable potential loss of value in 2011 if we would have applied the same methodology noted above would have been $80.1 million on sponsored fund investments of $764.5 million . during 2012 , we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $99.9 million . because our fund holdings are considered available-for-sale securities, we recognize unrealized losses that are considered temporary in other comprehensive income. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating investment income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. page 28 table of contents investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also hold other investments of $304.7 million at december 31, 2012 , including our $139.8 million equity investment in uti. given the nature of uti's business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. in addition, our investment in uti exposes us to foreign currency risk related to translating our proportionate share of its financial statements, which are denominated in indian rupees (inr), to u.s. dollars (usd) each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this foreign currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. our cumulative translation loss , net of tax, at december 31, 2012 , was $12.6 million . we operate in several foreign countries of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in usd. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. page 29 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds distributed in the u.s. and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based funds and portfolios at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with stable value portfolios and money market securities at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. page 10 table of contents general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans, may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. international exposure. our managed portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. the performance of our money market funds is impacted by the historically low interest rate environment. our money market funds' performance or yield is dependent on the income earned from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the fund. when interest rates are at or near the historic lows that have recently existed, the operating costs of the funds will become a greater portion of the portfolio's income, thereby reducing the yield of the funds to very low levels. since the second half of 2009 and presently, such an environment has led us to voluntarily waive a portion of our advisory fee earned on our money market funds in order to maintain yields at or above 0% for fund investors. such actions reduce our advisory fee income and net income. the actual amount of fees waived is dependent on a number of variables including, among others, changes in the net assets held by our money market funds, changes in market yields, changes in the expense levels of the funds, and our willingness to voluntarily continue such fee waivers. also, bank deposits may become more attractive to investors and money market funds could experience significant redemptions, which could decrease our revenues and net income. for further discussion of the fees we waived in the current period, management's expectation as to future fee waivers, and the net cash flows of our money market funds, please see our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this form 10-k. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. page 11 table of contents we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. in the event that we were to decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. in 2013, we had an increase in the normally very low turnover of our investment professionals. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse effect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, litigation, and a decrease in revenues. operating risks include: failure to properly perform fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, supervision of staff, tax reporting and record retention; and failure to identify excessive trading in mutual funds by our customers or plan participants; page 12 table of contents sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations; and our reliance on third-party vendors who now or in the future may perform or support important parts of our operations as there can be no assurance that they will perform properly or that our processes and plans to transition or delegate these functions to others will be successful or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if they are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the u.s. and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants and other stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, and inflation; a future impairment of investments recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with the t. rowe price mutual funds, we charge the mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or otherwise are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. while we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any of our sponsored investment products, any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income . we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. these contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client's needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their client assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or page 13 table of contents management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our associates, interrupting our business operations, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. a significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the baltimore, maryland region and in london, england. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in sponsored stock, blended asset and bond funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments in the case of our available-for-sale portfolio and the recognition of unrealized losses related to our sponsored investment portfolios that are held as trading and accounted for under the equity method. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. we own a 26% investment in uti asset management company ltd (uti), an indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the u.s. and have an equity investment in uti. our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: difficulty in managing, operating and marketing our international operations; page 14 table of contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses and assets in our u.s. dollar based financial statements; and significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have another indirect effect on our ability to provide services to our clients. potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: the volcker rule will not directly impact t. rowe price group; however, there remains the risk that the rule could impact the liquidity in capital markets, which may make it more difficult or costly to execute certain security transactions on behalf of our clients. as part of the debate in washington, d.c. related to the economy and the u.s. deficit, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the u.s. retirement system. we could incur increased costs if new regulatory requirements are adopted since retirement plans are a significant part of our client base and other types of retirement accounts invest in our mutual funds. in addition, changes to the current framework may impact our business in other ways. for example, proposals to reduce contributions to individual retirement accounts and defined contribution plans for certain individuals, as well as potential changes to defined benefit plans, may result in increased plan terminations and reduce our opportunity to manage and service retirement assets. the federal reserve board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank systemically important financial institutions ( sifis ), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. it has been suggested that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as sifis. we do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed sifis. further, we do not believe sifi designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. if, however, any t. rowe price fund or t. rowe price affiliate is deemed a sifi, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements. the securities and exchange commission (the sec ) has proposed additional reforms to money market fund regulation. the proposal includes two basic alternatives that could be adopted alone or in combination. the first proposed alternative would require institutional non-government money market funds to operate with a floating net asset value ( nav ) and the second proposed alternative would require non-government money market funds to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates under certain conditions. regardless of whether either or both of these alternatives are adopted, the sec proposal would institute other reforms for money market funds, including additional disclosure and reporting requirements, tightening of diversification requirements, and enhanced stress testing. adoption of any such reforms could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors, or the willingness of the firm to sponsor such products. it would also subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs to comply with any such requirements. page 15 table of contents the commodity futures trading commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of mutual funds and certain other products we sponsor to use commodities, futures, swaps and other derivatives without additional registration. if our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration. there has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. global regulations on otc derivatives are evolving, including proposed rules under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and european market infrastructure regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting and repositories. there remains uncertainty related to the requirements under these new regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients. we are subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate outside the u.s., including pan-european directives, such as the alternative investment fund management directive ( aifmd ). the aifmd has come into effect but interpretations of certain provisions are not yet final. it is expected that the aifmd may impact remuneration policies, capital requirements, and the manner in which affiliated entities provide services to funds covered by the aifmd. we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. however, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. they may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. the changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been an increase of litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all current minimum requirements; however, a significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, page 16 table of contents portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks such as hacking or viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, and other causes. some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. a suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. if we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. our systems or our third-party service providers' systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of fund shares. we have chosen to use a variant of each fund's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk as we believe the volatility in each fund's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each fund's investment objective. the potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of our fund investments at year-end was determined by using the lower of each fund's lowest net asset value per share during 2013 or its net asset value per share at december 31, 2013 reduced by 10%. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all funds experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value 12/31/2013 percentage of portfolio potential lower value percentage of portfolio potential loss stock and blended asset funds $ 657.2 41 % $ 513.4 38 % $ 143.8 22 % bond funds 954.7 59 % 851.4 62 % 103.3 11 % $ 1,611.9 100 % $ 1,364.8 100 % $ 247.1 15 % the comparable potential loss of value in 2012 using the same methodology noted above was $153.8 million on sponsored fund investments of $1,140.1 million . during 2013 , we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $149.7 million . as available-for-sale securities, we recognize unrealized losses that are considered temporary in other comprehensive income. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating investment income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk page 30 table of contents by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. we also held equity method investments of $231.5 million at december 31, 2013 , including our $122.6 million equity investment in uti. given the nature of uti's business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. in addition, our investment in uti exposes us to foreign currency risk related to translating our proportionate share of its financial statements, which are denominated in indian rupees (inr), to u.s. dollars (usd) each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this foreign currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. we had a cumulative translation loss , net of tax, of $26.9 million at december 31, 2013 , related to our investment in uti. we operate in several foreign countries of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in usd. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. page 31 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds distributed in the u.s. and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based funds and portfolios at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with stable value portfolios and money market securities at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. prolonged periods of strong relative investment performance may result in capacity constraints within certain portfolios, which in turn may negatively impact our ability to achieve strong investments results in subsequent periods. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, investor preference for passive or alternative investment portfolios, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans and target-date retirement products, may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. international exposure. our managed portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations, and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations, and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. page 11 table of contents the performance of our money market funds and portfolios are impacted by the historically low interest rate environment. our money market funds' and portfolios' performance or yield is dependent on the income earned from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the fund. when interest rates are at or near the historic lows, the operating costs of the funds will become a greater portion of the portfolio's net income, thereby reducing the yield of the funds to very low levels. since the second half of 2009, such an environment has led us to voluntarily waive our advisory and other fees earned on our money market funds and trusts in order to maintain yields at or above 0% for fund investors. such actions reduce our advisory fee income and net income. the actual amount of fees waived is dependent on a number of variables including, among others, changes in the net assets held by our money market funds, changes in market yields, changes in the expense levels of the funds, and our willingness to voluntarily continue such fee waivers. also, bank deposits may become more attractive to investors and money market funds could experience significant redemptions, which could decrease our revenues and net income. for further discussion of the fees we waived in the current period, management's expectation as to future fee waivers, and the net cash flows of our money market funds and trusts, please see our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this form 10-k. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from: asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. in the event that we were to decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. page 12 table of contents our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. we have near- and long-term succession planning processes, including programs to develop our future leaders, which are intended to address future talent needs and minimize the impact of losing key talent. however, in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse effect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, litigation, and a decrease in revenues. operating risks include: failure to properly perform or oversee fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, supervision of staff, tax reporting, and record retention; sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations; and our reliance on third-party vendors who, now or in the future, may perform or support important parts of our operations as there can be no assurance that they will perform properly or that our processes and plans to transition or delegate these functions to others will be successful or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if those inquiries are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the u.s. and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants and other stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, and inflation; a future impairment of investments recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; page 13 table of contents unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with the t. rowe price mutual funds, we charge the mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. while we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any of our sponsored investment products, any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income . we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. these contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of investment product offerings and successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client's needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their client assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our associates, interrupting our business operations or those of critical service providers, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. a significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the baltimore, maryland region and in london, england. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues, and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in sponsored stock, blended asset, and bond funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments page 14 table of contents in the case of our available-for-sale portfolio and the recognition of unrealized losses related to our sponsored investment portfolios that are held as trading and accounted for under the equity method. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, additional or new regulatory requirements, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. we own a 26% investment in uti asset management company ltd (uti), an indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the u.s. and have an equity investment in uti. our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: difficulty in managing, operating, and marketing our international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses, and assets in our u.s. dollar based financial statements; and significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients. potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: the volcker rule will not directly impact t. rowe price group; however, there remains the risk that the rule could impact the liquidity in capital markets, which may make it more difficult or costly to execute certain security transactions on behalf of our clients. as part of the debate in washington, d.c. related to the economy and the u.s. deficit, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the u.s. retirement system. we could incur increased costs if new regulatory requirements are adopted page 15 table of contents since retirement plans are a significant part of our client base and other types of retirement accounts invest in our mutual funds. in addition, changes to the current framework may impact our business in other ways. for example, proposals to reduce contributions to individual retirement accounts and defined contribution plans for certain individuals, as well as potential changes to defined benefit plans, may result in increased plan terminations and reduce our opportunity to manage and service retirement assets. the u.s. department of labor and securities and exchange commission (sec) are considering changes to definitions and rules related to fiduciaries. depending on their nature, these changes may impact our ability to service clients or engage in certain distribution or other business activities. the federal reserve board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank systemically important financial institutions (sifis), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. it has been suggested that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as sifis. we do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed sifis. further, we do not believe sifi designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. if, however, any t. rowe price fund or t. rowe price affiliate is deemed a sifi, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements. on july 23, 2014, the sec adopted additional reforms regulating money market funds. the reforms will require institutional non-government money market funds to operate with a floating net asset value (nav) and require all non-government money market funds to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates under certain conditions. government and retail money market funds will continue using current pricing and accounting methods to seek to maintain a stable nav. the sec adopted other reforms for money market funds, including additional disclosure and reporting requirements, tightening of diversification requirements, and enhanced stress testing. these reforms will take effect over the next two years and could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors and also subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs to comply with such requirements. the commodity futures trading commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of mutual funds and certain other products we sponsor to use commodities, futures, swaps, and other derivatives without additional registration. if our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration. there has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. global regulations on otc derivatives are evolving, including new and proposed regulations under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and european market infrastructure regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting, and repositories. there remains uncertainty related to various requirements under these regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients. the revised markets in financial instruments directive (mifid ii directive) and regulation (mifir) (together mifid ii ) will apply across the european union (eu) and member states of the european economic area from january 3, 2017. implementation of mifid ii will significantly impact both the structure and operation of eu financial markets. some of the main changes introduced under mifid ii include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, further conduct of business requirements, enhancing governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, and changes to the regulation of trading venues. compliance with mifid ii will increase our costs. we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. however, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. they may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. the changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. page 16 table of contents we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all current minimum requirements; however, a significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss, or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure to conduct or expand our operations or if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems, including those provided by vendors, are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks such as hacking or viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, and other causes. a suspension or termination of vendor-provided software licenses or related support, upgrades, and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. if we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. our systems or our third-party service providers' systems page 17 table of contents could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of fund shares. we have chosen to use a variant of each fund's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk as we believe the volatility in each fund's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each fund's investment objective. the potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of our fund investments at year-end was determined by using the lower of each fund's lowest net asset value per share during 2014 or its net asset value per share at december 31, 2014 , reduced by 10%. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all funds experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. page 31 table of contents fair value 12/31/2014 percentage of portfolio potential lower value percentage of portfolio potential loss stock and blended asset funds $ 732.6 39 % $ 656.5 39 % $ 76.1 10 % bond funds 1,151.4 61 % 1,036.2 61 % 115.2 10 % $ 1,884.0 100 % $ 1,692.7 100 % $ 191.3 10 % the comparable potential loss of value in 2013 using the same methodology noted above was $247.1 million , or 15%, on sponsored fund investments of $1,611.9 million . during 2014 , we experienced actual net unrealized losses of $2.1 million . as available-for-sale securities, we recognize unrealized losses that are considered temporary in other comprehensive income. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating investment income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. we hold $125.6 million at december 31, 2014, in equity method investments related to seed capital investments we have in sponsored funds in which we are deemed to have significant influence. given that the funds' net assets are at fair value, we utilized the same methodology to quantify the impact of equity risk on our carrying value as we did for our available-for-sale portfolio as further discussed above. the potential loss in value before any income tax benefits of our equity method investments in sponsored funds was $12.6 million. our equity method investment in uti of $132.4 million at december 31, 2014, exposes us to foreign currency risk related to translating our proportionate share of its financial statements, which are denominated in indian rupees (inr), to u.s. dollars (usd) each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this foreign currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. we had a cumulative translation loss , net of tax, of $25.7 million at december 31, 2014 , related to our investment in uti. given the nature of uti's business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. we operate in several foreign countries of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in usd. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. page 32 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds distributed in the u.s. and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based funds and portfolios at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with stable value portfolios and money market securities at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. page 11 table of contents general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. prolonged periods of strong relative investment performance may result in capacity constraints within certain portfolios, which in turn may negatively impact our ability to achieve strong investment results in subsequent periods. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, investor preference for passive or alternative investment portfolios, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans and target-date retirement products, may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. international exposure. our managed portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations, and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations, and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. the performance of our money market funds and portfolios are impacted by the historically low interest rate environment. our money market funds' and portfolios' performance or yield is dependent on the income earned from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the fund. when interest rates are at or near the historic lows, the operating costs of the funds will become a greater portion of the portfolio's net income, thereby reducing the yield of the funds to very low levels. since the second half of 2009, such an environment has led us to voluntarily waive our advisory and other fees earned on our money market funds and trusts in order to maintain yields at or above 0% for fund investors. such actions reduce our advisory fee income and net income. the actual amount of fees waived is dependent on a number of variables including, among others, changes in the net assets held by our money market funds, changes in market yields, changes in the expense levels of the funds, and our willingness to voluntarily continue such fee waivers. also, bank deposits may become more attractive to investors and money market funds could experience significant redemptions, which could decrease our revenues and net income. for further discussion of the fees we waived in the current period, management's expectation as to future fee waivers, and the net cash flows of our money market funds and trusts, please see our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this form 10-k. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. page 12 table of contents we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from other financial institutions. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. if current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. in the event that we were to decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. we have near- and long-term succession planning processes, including programs to develop our future leaders, which are intended to address future talent needs and minimize the impact of losing key talent. however, in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse effect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, litigation, and a decrease in revenues. operating risks include: failure to properly perform or oversee fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, supervision of staff, tax reporting, and record retention; sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations; and our reliance on third-party vendors who, now or in the future, may perform or support important parts of our operations as there can be no assurance that they will perform properly or that our processes and plans to transition or delegate these functions to others will be successful or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if those inquiries are satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain page 13 table of contents customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: changes in the level of our advertising expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the u.s. and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock option grants and other stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, and inflation; a future impairment of investments recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent and accounting systems. under our agreements with the t. rowe price mutual funds, we charge the mutual funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. while we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any of our sponsored investment products, any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income . we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. these contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of investment product offerings and successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client's needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their client assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our associates, page 14 table of contents interrupting our business operations or those of critical service providers, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. a significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the baltimore, maryland region and in london, england. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues, and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in sponsored stock, blended asset, and bond funds. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments in the case of our available-for-sale portfolio and the recognition of unrealized losses related to our sponsored investment portfolios that are held as trading and accounted for under the equity method. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, additional or new regulatory requirements, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. we own a 26% investment in uti asset management company ltd (uti), an indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the u.s. and have an equity investment in uti. our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: difficulty in managing, operating, and marketing our international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses, and assets in our u.s. dollar based financial statements; and significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any page 15 table of contents regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients. potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: as part of the debate in washington, d.c. related to the economy and the u.s. deficit, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the u.s. retirement system. we could incur increased costs if new regulatory requirements are adopted since retirement plans are a significant part of our client base and other types of retirement accounts invest in our mutual funds. in addition, changes to the current framework may impact our business in other ways. for example, proposals to reduce contributions to individual retirement accounts and defined contribution plans for certain individuals, as well as potential changes to defined benefit plans, may result in increased plan terminations and reduce our opportunity to manage and service retirement assets. the u.s. department of labor is planning to finalize changes to definitions and rules related to fiduciaries. these changes are likely to require modifications to our distribution activities and may impact our ability to service clients or engage in certain types of distribution or other business activities. the securities and exchange commission (sec) is considering its own fiduciary rule proposal. any such rule may also have an impact on our business activities. the federal reserve board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank systemically important financial institutions (sifis), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. it has been suggested that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as sifis. we do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed sifis. further, we do not believe sifi designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. if, however, any t. rowe price fund or t. rowe price affiliate is deemed a sifi, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements. on july 23, 2014, the sec adopted additional reforms regulating money market funds. the reforms will require institutional non-government money market funds to operate with a floating net asset value (nav) and require all non-government money market funds to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates under certain conditions. government and retail money market funds will continue using current pricing and accounting methods to seek to maintain a stable nav. the sec adopted other reforms for money market funds, including additional disclosure and reporting requirements, tightening of diversification requirements, and enhanced stress testing. these reforms could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors and also subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs to comply with such requirements. the commodity futures trading commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of mutual funds and certain other products we sponsor to use commodities, futures, swaps, and other derivatives without additional registration. if our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration. there has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. global regulations on otc derivatives are evolving, including new and proposed regulations under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and european market infrastructure regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting, and repositories. in addition, the sec has proposed new regulations that will require mutual funds to: (1) adopt liquidity risk management programs with specific requirements for measuring and reporting the liquidity of fund holdings; and (2) comply with new exposure limits and asset coverage requirements for page 16 table of contents investments in derivatives, as well as adopting derivatives risk management programs. there remains uncertainty related to various requirements under these regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients. the revised markets in financial instruments directive (mifid ii directive) and regulation (mifir) (together mifid ii ) will apply across the european union (eu) and member states of the european economic area from january 3, 2017, unless extended. implementation of mifid ii will significantly impact both the structure and operation of eu financial markets. some of the main changes introduced under mifid ii include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. compliance with mifid ii will increase our costs. we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. however, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. they may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. the changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all current minimum requirements; however, a significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss, or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. government action related to continued membership in the european union we have a significant locally authorized and regulated presence in the united kingdom ("uk") to support our global investment management business. it is likely the uk will hold a referendum regarding continued membership in the european union ("eu"). a uk exit from the eu would be extremely disruptive to our operations and require us to analyze potential changes to our corporate structure and european product and distribution strategies. any such changes, if required, would likely subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure to conduct or expand our operations or if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, page 17 table of contents portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems, including those provided by vendors, are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks such as hacking or viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, and other causes. a suspension or termination of vendor-provided software licenses or related support, upgrades, and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. if we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. our systems or our third-party service providers' systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities or under the equity method by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of fund shares. we have chosen to use a variant of each fund's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk, as we believe the volatility in each fund's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each fund's investment objective. the potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of these fund investments at year-end was determined by using the lower of each fund's lowest net asset value per share during 2015 or its net asset value per share at december 31, 2015 , reduced by 10%. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all funds experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value 12/31/2015 percentage of portfolio potential lower value percentage of portfolio 2015 potential loss 2014 potential loss stock and blended asset funds $ 599.8 37 % $ 536.1 37 % $ 63.7 11 % $ 76.1 10 % bond funds 1,012.5 63 % 911.2 63 % 101.3 10 % 115.2 10 % $ 1,612.3 100 % $ 1,447.3 100 % $ 165.0 10 % $ 191.3 10 % equity method fund investments $ 113.7 100 % $ 102.3 100 % $ 11.4 10 % $ 12.6 10 % for available-for-sale securities, we experienced actual net unrealized losses of $5.0 million in 2015 that are considered temporary in other comprehensive income. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating investment income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. during 2015 , we recognized an other-than-temporary impairment of $4.8 million. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. page 34 table of contents our equity method investment in uti of $132.8 million at december 31, 2015 , exposes us to foreign currency risk related to translating our proportionate share of its financial statements, which are denominated in indian rupees (inr), to u.s. dollars (usd) each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this foreign currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. we had a cumulative translation loss , net of tax, of $31.4 million at december 31, 2015 , related to our investment in uti. given the nature of uti's business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. we operate in several foreign countries of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in usd. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. page 35 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price mutual funds distributed in the u.s. and other investment portfolios. our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity investments, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based funds and portfolios at the low end and emerging markets funds and portfolios at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income funds and portfolios, though not as widely as equity investments, with stable value portfolios and money market securities at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bonds at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, on very short notice and without any significant penalty. general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. prolonged periods of strong relative investment performance may result in capacity constraints within certain portfolios, which in turn may negatively impact our ability to achieve strong investment results in subsequent periods. investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, investor preference for passive or alternative investment portfolios, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans and target date retirement products, may reduce interest in our funds and portfolios and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. international exposure. our managed portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations, and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations, and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. tax regulation changes. changes in the status of tax deferred retirement plan investments and tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates and regulations could page 11 table of contents adversely affect investor behavior and may cause investors to view certain investment offerings less favorably and withdraw their investment assets, thereby decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. the performance of our money market funds and portfolios have been impacted by the historically low interest rate environment. our money market funds' and portfolios' performance or yield is dependent on the income earned from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the fund. when interest rates are at or near historic lows, the operating costs of the funds will become a greater portion of the portfolio's net income, thereby reducing the yield of the funds to very low levels. the interest rate environment experienced since the second half of 2009 until recently led us to voluntarily waive our advisory and other fees earned on our money market funds and trusts in order to maintain yields at or above 0% for fund investors. such actions have reduced our advisory fee income and net income. fee waivers have been reduced significantly in 2016, as interest rates have increased over the year. given the current interest rate environment, we expect that our fee waivers in 2017, if any, will not be significant. the actual amount of fees waived is dependent on a number of variables including, among others, changes in the net assets held by our money market funds, changes in market yields, changes in the expense levels of the funds, and our willingness to voluntarily continue such fee waivers. for further discussion of the fees we waived in the current period, management's expectation as to future fee waivers, and the net cash flows of our money market funds and trusts, please see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7, of this form 10-k. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a loss of customers and their assets, thereby reducing our assets under management and our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from other financial institutions. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. most of our investment portfolios are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing funds. the market environment in recent years has led investors to increasingly favor lower fee passive products. as a result, investment advisors that emphasize passive products have gained and may continue to gain market share from active managers like us. while we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain, we believe there will always be demand for good active management. if current or potential customers decide to move their assets to one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. in the event that we were to decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. page 12 table of contents our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio and fund managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. due to the global nature of our investment advisory business, our key personnel may have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism and we may be unable to ensure the safety of personnel traveling to these regions. we have near- and long-term succession planning processes, including programs to develop our future leaders, which are intended to address future talent needs and minimize the impact of losing key talent. however, in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of products and services could have an adverse effect on our reputation and subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, litigation, and a decrease in revenues. operating risks include: failure to properly perform or oversee fund or portfolio recordkeeping responsibilities, including portfolio accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders to comply with tax regulations; failure to properly perform transfer agent and participant recordkeeping responsibilities, including transaction processing, supervision of staff, tax reporting, and record retention; sales and marketing risks, including the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, or other external communications, and failure to properly calculate and present investment performance data accurately and in accordance with established guidelines and regulations; and our reliance on third-party vendors who, now or in the future, may perform or support important parts of our operations as there can be no assurance that they will perform properly or that our processes and plans to transition or delegate these functions to others will be successful or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client services. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if those inquiries are satisfactorily addressed. additionally, we are subject to the risk that our employees or third parties acting on our behalf may circumvent controls or act in a manner inconsistent with our policies and procedures. any real or perceived conflict between our clients' interests and our own, as well as any fraudulent activity or other exposure of client assets or information, may impair our reputation. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: expenses incurred in connection with our multi-year strategic plan to strengthen our long-term competitive position; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, and inflation; page 13 table of contents changes in the level of our advertising and promotion expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the u.s. and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels; expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; changes in the costs incurred for third-party vendors that perform certain administrative and operating services; a future impairment of investments recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent, investment management, trading, and accounting systems. under our agreements with the price funds, we charge the funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. while we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any of our sponsored investment products, any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income . we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment portfolios in the u.s. and abroad and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. these contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment offerings, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our portfolios. it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of investment product offerings and successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client's needs. we cannot assure that our investment offerings will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their clients' assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflict, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our employees, interrupting our business operations or those of critical service providers, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. a significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the baltimore, maryland region and in london, england. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise, or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. in addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to page 14 table of contents perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues, and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial portion of our assets invested in sponsored investment portfolios. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments in the case of our available-for-sale portfolio and the recognition of unrealized losses related to our sponsored investment portfolios that are consolidated, held as trading or accounted for under the equity method. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, additional or new regulatory requirements, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. we own a 26% investment in uti asset management company ltd (uti), an indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the u.s. and have an equity investment in uti. our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: difficulty in managing, operating, and marketing our international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses, and assets in our u.s. dollar based financial statements; and significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. new regulations present areas of uncertainty susceptible to alternative interpretations; regulators and prospective litigants may not agree with reasoned interpretations we adopt. future changes could require us to modify or curtail page 15 table of contents our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients. potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: as part of the debate in washington, d.c. related to the economy and the u.s. deficit, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the u.s. retirement system. we could incur increased costs if new regulatory requirements are adopted since retirement plans are a significant part of our client base and other types of retirement accounts invest in our funds. in addition, changes to the current framework may impact our business in other ways. for example, proposals to reduce contributions to individual retirement accounts and defined contribution plans for certain individuals, as well as potential changes to defined benefit plans, may result in increased plan terminations and reduce our opportunity to manage and service retirement assets. in april 2016, the u.s. department of labor finalized changes to definitions and rules related to fiduciaries. although there is some uncertainty about the rule and whether it will be withdrawn or modified, as currently written these changes will require modifications to how we interact with retirement customers and prospects, and may cause us to limit certain types of distribution or other business activities. the securities and exchange commission (sec) is considering its own fiduciary rule proposal. any such rule may also have an impact on our business activities. the federal reserve board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank systemically important financial institutions (sifis), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. it has been suggested that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as sifis. we do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed sifis. further, we do not believe sifi designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. however, if any t. rowe price fund or t. rowe price affiliate is deemed a sifi, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements. on july 23, 2014, the sec adopted additional reforms regulating money market funds that became effective in october 2016. the reforms require institutional non-government money market funds to operate with a floating net asset value (nav) and require all non-government money market funds to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates under certain conditions. government and retail money market funds can continue using current pricing and accounting methods to seek to maintain a stable nav. these reforms could have a negative impact on the attractiveness of such funds to investors and also subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs to comply with such requirements. the commodity futures trading commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of mutual funds and certain other products we sponsor to use commodities, futures, swaps, and other derivatives without additional registration. if our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration. there has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. we remain subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection of data we maintain concerning our customers and employees. these requirements continue to evolve. for example, the european union has adopted changes, effective in may 2018, which will, among other things, significantly increase the potential penalties for non-compliance. global regulations on otc derivatives are evolving, including new and proposed regulations under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and european market infrastructure regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting, and repositories. in addition, the sec has adopted new regulations that will require mutual funds to adopt liquidity risk management programs with specific requirements for measuring and reporting the liquidity of fund holdings. it also has proposed regulations detailing new exposure limits and asset coverage requirements for investments in derivatives, as well as adopting derivatives risk management programs. there remains uncertainty related to various requirements under these regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients. page 16 table of contents the revised markets in financial instruments directive (mifid ii directive) and regulation (mifir) (together mifid ii ) will apply across the european union ( eu ) and member states of the european economic area beginning on january 3, 2018, unless this date is extended. implementation of mifid ii will significantly impact both the structure and operation of eu financial markets. some of the main changes introduced under mifid ii include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. compliance with mifid ii will increase our costs. we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. however, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. they may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. the changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and, to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees, it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. in 2016, we paid $166.2 million to compensate certain t. rowe price mutual funds, trusts, separately managed accounts, and subadvised clients (collectively, clients ) for the denial of their appraisal rights by the delaware chancery court (court) in connection with the 2013 leveraged buyout of dell, inc. (dell). the court ruled on may 11, 2016, that the clients could not pursue an appraisal of any shares they held that were voted in favor of the dell merger. the appraisal statute governing the transaction required the record holder to vote against or abstain from voting on the transaction in order to assert appraisal rights. after previously voting against prior transaction proposals, the voting instructions submitted on behalf of the clients in connection with voting on the final proposed transaction were incorrectly submitted in favor of the transaction. on may 31, 2016, the court determined that the fair value of dell at the time of the merger was $17.62 per share, as opposed to the $13.75 price offered in the transaction. as a result, any shareholder perfecting appraisal rights is entitled to a payment at $17.62 per share plus statutory interest from the date the dell transaction closed. the compensation to clients was intended to make them whole for the voting discrepancy that resulted in the denial of their appraisal rights. on december 30, 2016, we signed a settlement agreement with our insurance carrier for insurance proceeds totaling $100.0 million related to this matter. in accordance with the compensation payment, the clients agreed that in the event the findings made by the court regarding the fair value of dell or the amount of interest to be applied were modified by the supreme court of delaware on appeal, t. rowe price and the clients would make an appropriate adjustment between themselves, calculated in a manner that is consistent with the methodology used to compensate clients. in december 2016, several parties, including dell and the successful appraisal petitioners, filed appeals to the delaware supreme court to challenge the chancery court's valuation ruling. our settlement agreement with the insurance carrier provides that if the fair value of dell is reduced, we would work together to make appropriate adjustments. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all current minimum requirements; however, a significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss, or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or even maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. page 17 table of contents united kingdom exit from european union. we have a significant locally authorized and regulated presence in the united kingdom ( uk ) to support our global investment management business. the ultimate impact of the uk exit ( brexit ) from the european union ( eu ), on our business operations in the uk and europe could vary depending on the details of the separation agreement. we are preparing for multiple scenarios, and remain committed to our clients, associates and business expansion across the region. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure to conduct or expand our operations or if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems, including those provided by vendors, are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks such as hacking or viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, and other causes. a suspension or termination of vendor-provided software licenses or related support, upgrades, and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. if we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients, as well as, proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. our systems, or those of our third-party service providers we may use to maintain and transmit such information, could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. page 18 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from our investments in our sponsored investment portfolios as they are carried at fair value. investments in these portfolios generally moderate market risk as they are diversified portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds as well as diversification among equity and fixed income portfolios. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. we have chosen to use a variant of each portfolio's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk, as we believe the volatility in each portfolio's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each of its investment objectives. the potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of these fund investments at year-end was determined by using the lower of each portfolio's lowest net asset value per share during 2016 or its net asset value per share at december 31, 2016 , reduced by 10%. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all portfolios experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value 12/31/2016 potential lower value 2016 potential loss investments available-for-sale $ 709.0 $ 627.8 $ 81.2 11 % investments trading $ 75.4 $ 67.7 $ 7.7 10 % direct investment in consolidated sponsored investment portfolios $ 927.7 $ 813.9 $ 113.8 12 % for available-for-sale securities, any losses arising from changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax, until the investment is disposed of, or if the investment is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. the direct investment in consolidated sponsored investment portfolios represents our portion of the net assets of the portfolio. upon consolidation of these portfolios, our direct investment is eliminated and the net assets of the portfolio are combined in our consolidated balance sheet, together with redeemable non-controlling interest, which represents the portion of the portfolio that is owned by unrelated third-party investors. any losses arising from the change in fair value of our direct investments in consolidated sponsored investment portfolios would result in a corresponding decrease, net of tax, in our net income attributable to t. rowe price group. certain of our investments, including a few consolidated sponsored investment portfolios, expose us to foreign currency translation risk when their foreign denominated financial statements are translated into u.s. dollars. our most significant exposure relates to the translation of the financial statements of our equity method investment in uti ( $140.9 million at december 31, 2016 ), whose financial statements are denominated in indian rupees (inr) and are translated to u.s. dollars (usd) each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this foreign currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. we had a cumulative translation loss , net of tax, of $32.3 million at december 31, 2016 , related to our investment in uti. given the nature of uti's business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. we operate in several foreign countries of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, although our revenues are predominately realized in usd. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. page 41 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the t. rowe price u.s. mutual funds and other investment products . our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity products , there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based products at the low end and emerging markets products at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income products , though not as widely as equity products , with stable value products and money market products at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bond products at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, without advance notice and with little to no significant penalty. general market declines. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed investment portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. prolonged periods of strong relative investment performance may result in capacity constraints within certain strategies, which in turn may negatively impact our ability to achieve strong investment results in subsequent periods. page 11 table of contents investing trends. changes in investing trends and, in particular, investor preference for passive or alternative investment products , retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans and target date retirement products , may reduce interest in our products and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. international exposure. our managed investment portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations, and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. international markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations, and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. the performance of our money market products are impacted by the interest rate environment. our money market products ' performance or yield is dependent on the income earned from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the product . when interest rates are very low, the operating costs of the product will become a greater portion of its net income, thereby reducing the yield to very low levels. the interest rate environment experienced from the second half of 2009 through 2016 led us to voluntarily waive our advisory and other fees earned on our money market product in order to maintain yields at or above 0% for fund investors. the actual amount of fees we waived was dependent on a number of variables including, among others, changes in the net assets held by our money market product s, changes in market yields, changes in the expense levels of the product s, and our willingness to voluntarily continue such fee waivers. these waivers reduced our advisory fee income and net income. if a similar interest rate environment was to reocur, there is no guarantee that we would voluntarily waive fees again. for further discussion of the fees we waived in 2016, and the net cash flows of our money market product s, please see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7, of this form 10-k. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the price funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each price fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each price fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days' notice. if a price fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the price funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry. competitive pressures may result in a loss of customers and their assets or compel us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, thereby reducing our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from other financial institutions. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some competitors operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment products offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. most of our investment products are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing products . the market environment in recent years has led investors to increasingly favor lower fee passive products. as a result, investment advisors that emphasize passive products have gained and may continue to gain market share from active managers like us. while we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain, we believe there will always be demand for good active management. page 12 table of contents if current or potential customers decide to move their assets to one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. in the event that we decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, which we have done selectively in the past, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our u.s.-based associates do not have employments contracts, while our associates outside the u.s. have employment contracts where basic employment terms are confirmed in writing. generally our associates can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. due to the global nature of our investment advisory business, our key personnel may have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism and we may be unable to ensure the safety of personnel traveling to these regions. we have near- and long-term succession planning processes, including programs to develop our future leaders, which are intended to address future talent needs and minimize the impact of losing key talent. however, in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational processes could have an adverse effect on our reputation and decrease our revenues. we provide investment management, product administration, product recordkeeping, and tax reporting services to our clients. in certain cases, we rely on third-party vendors in the execution and delivery of these services. there can be no assurance that these vendors will properly perform these processes or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties. failure to properly execute or oversee these services could subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, or litigation. in some cases, we employ quantitative models to support investment decisions and processes, including those related to risk assessment, portfolio management, and activities. undetected errors in the design, function or underlying assumptions used in these could lead to an adverse impact to t. rowe price's business and reputation. new investment products we introduce could increase the risk that our existing systems may not be adequate to control the risks introduced by such new investment products . in addition, our information systems and technology platforms might not be able to accommodate our continued growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems might increase from its current level. materialization of these risks could disrupt our operations or result in financial exposure, regulatory inquiry or reputational damage. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client service. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if those inquiries are satisfactorily addressed. additionally, we are subject to the risk that our employees or third parties acting on our behalf may circumvent controls or act in a manner inconsistent with our policies and procedures. real or perceived conflicts between our clients' interests and our own, as well as any fraudulent activity or other exposure of client assets or information, may impair our reputation and subject us to litigation or regulatory action. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: expenses incurred in connection with our multi-year strategic plan to strengthen our long-term competitive position; page 13 table of contents variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, market performance, and inflation; changes in the level of our advertising and promotion expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the u.s. and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels; expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; changes in the costs incurred for third-party vendors that perform certain administrative and operating services; a future impairment of investments recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent, investment management, trading, and accounting systems. under our agreements with the price funds, we charge the funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. while we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any t. rowe price investment products , any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income . amendments to tax laws may impact the marketability of the products and services we offer our clients or the financial position of the company. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we cannot predict future changes in the tax regulations to which we are subject, and they could have a material impact on our liability or result in increased costs of our tax compliance efforts. additionally, changes in the status of tax deferred investment options, including retirement plans, tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates could cause investors to view certain investment products less favorably and reduce investor demand for products and services we offer, which could have an adverse effect on our assets under management and revenues. on december 22, 2017, a comprehensive u.s. tax reform bill originally known as the tax cuts and jobs act ( tax reform ) was enacted into law. we are required to recognize the effect of tax reform in our 2017 financial statements, even though the effective date of the law for most provisions is january 1, 2018. we continue to evaluate the impact of tax reform and expect new regulations to be issued to address certain uncertainties in the application of the law. this might result in changes to our estimates and expectations given our inability to predict the impact of future regulations and other guidance. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. based on the global nature of our business, from time to time we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines, or penalties). we have a process to evaluate whether to record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our estimates. we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment products in the u.s. and abroad and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. these contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment products , and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our products . it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of investment product offerings and successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and page 14 table of contents other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment product . these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment product as better meeting their particular client's needs. we cannot assure that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their clients' assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our employees, interrupting our business operations or those of critical service providers, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. a significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the baltimore, maryland region and in london, england. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise, or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. we also rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for service delivery in addition to technology and disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues, and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial investment portfolio. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments in the case of our available-for-sale portfolio and the recognition of unrealized losses related to t. rowe price products that are consolidated, held as trading or accounted for under the equity method. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. we may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, additional or new regulatory requirements, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. we own a 26% investment in uti asset management company ltd (uti), an indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. page 15 table of contents we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the u.s. and have an equity investment in uti. our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: difficulty in managing, operating, and marketing our international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses, and assets in our u.s. dollar based financial statements; and significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. new regulations present areas of uncertainty susceptible to alternative interpretations; regulators and prospective litigants may not agree with reasoned interpretations we adopt. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients. potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: as part of the debate in washington, d.c. and in state legislatures, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the u.s. retirement system. we could experience adverse business impacts if legislative and regulatory changes limit retirement plans to certain products and services, or favor certain investment vehicles, that we do not offer or are not core to our business. there remains uncertainty about the u.s. department of labor's (dol) final fiduciary rule. further, in the wake of the dol rules, there has been substantial regulatory and legislative activity at federal and state levels regarding standards of care for financial services firms, related to both retirement and taxable accounts. the ultimate action taken by the dol, sec or other applicable regulatory or legislative body may impact our business activities and increase our costs. the federal reserve board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank systemically important financial institutions (sifis), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. it has been suggested that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as sifis. we do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed sifis. further, we do not believe sifi designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. however, if any t. rowe price fund or t. rowe price affiliate is deemed a sifi, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements. the commodity futures trading commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of t. rowe price investment products to use commodities, futures, swaps, and other derivatives without additional registration. if our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration. page 16 table of contents there has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. we remain subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection of data we maintain concerning our customers and employees. these requirements continue to evolve. for example, the european union has adopted changes, effective in may 2018, which will, among other things, significantly increase the potential penalties for non-compliance. global regulations on over the counter derivatives are evolving, including new and proposed regulations under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and european market infrastructure regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting, and repositories. in addition, the sec has adopted new regulations that will require mutual funds to adopt liquidity risk management programs with specific requirements for measuring and reporting the liquidity of fund holdings. it also has proposed regulations detailing new exposure limits and asset coverage requirements for investments in derivatives, as well as adopting derivatives risk management programs. there remains uncertainty related to various requirements under these regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients. the revised markets in financial instruments directive (mifid ii directive) and regulation (mifir) (together mifid ii ) applied across the european union ( eu ) and member states of the european economic area beginning on january 3, 2018. implementation of mifid ii has significantly impacted both the structure and operation of eu financial markets. some of the main changes introduced under mifid ii include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. although compliance with mifid ii will increase our costs, as we prepared for this by deciding in 2017 that we would pay for third-party investment research used by our uk-based investment manager, t. rowe price international ltd, beginning in 2018. we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. however, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. they may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. the changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and, to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees, it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. in 2016, we paid $166.2 million to compensate certain t. rowe price mutual funds, trusts, separately managed accounts, and subadvised clients (collectively, clients ) for the denial of their appraisal rights by the delaware chancery court (court) in connection with the 2013 leveraged buyout of dell, inc. (dell). the court ruled on may 11, 2016, that the clients could not pursue an appraisal of any shares they held that were voted in favor of the dell merger. the appraisal statute governing the transaction required the record holder to vote against or abstain from voting on the transaction in order to assert appraisal rights. after previously voting against prior transaction proposals, the voting instructions submitted on behalf of the clients in connection with voting on the final proposed transaction were incorrectly submitted in favor of the transaction. on may 31, 2016, the court determined that the fair value of dell at the time of the merger was $17.62 per share, as opposed to the $13.75 price offered in the transaction. as a result, any shareholder perfecting appraisal rights is entitled to a payment at $17.62 per share plus statutory interest from the date the dell transaction closed subject to possible appeal of the court's decision. the page 17 table of contents compensation to clients was intended to make them whole for the voting discrepancy that resulted in the denial of their appraisal rights. we recovered insurance proceeds totaling $150.0 million related to this matter. in accordance with the compensation payment, the clients agreed that in the event the findings made by the court regarding the fair value of dell or the amount of interest to be applied were modified by a final, non-appealable judgment, t. rowe price and the clients would make an appropriate adjustment between themselves, calculated in a manner that is consistent with the methodology used to compensate clients. in december 2016, several parties, including dell and the successful appraisal petitioners, filed appeals to the delaware supreme court to challenge the court's valuation ruling. on december 14, 2017, the delaware supreme court reversed the judgment and remanded the case for further proceedings. it is not clear how the court will eventually rule and what the ultimate valuation will be, although the supreme court's opinion suggests that the deal price of $13.75 may be the ultimate outcome. once the court enters a final, non-appealable judgment, clients will be required to repay any overpayment using the methodology used to calculate the original payment. we estimate that the first $15.2 million reclaimed would be paid back to t. rowe price group. we would then be required to repay any additional reclaimed funds to our insurers. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all current minimum requirements; however, a significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss, or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. united kingdom exit from european union. we have a significant locally authorized and regulated presence in the united kingdom ( uk ) to support our global investment management business. the ultimate impact of the uk exit ( brexit ) from the european union ( eu ), on our business operations in the uk and europe could vary depending on the details of the separation agreement. we are preparing for multiple scenarios, and remain committed to our clients, associates and business expansion across the region. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure to conduct or expand our operations or if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary or third-party licensed technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems, including those provided by vendors, are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks such as hacking or viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, and other causes. a suspension or termination of vendor-provided software licenses or related support, upgrades, and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. if we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, page 18 table of contents we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients, as well as, proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or detected in a timely manner. we also leverage cloud-based solutions for the transmission and storage of this information. our systems, or those of third-party service providers we may use to maintain and transmit such information, could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code. additionally, authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. page 19 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the following table presents the equity price risk from our investments in t. rowe price investment products as they are carried at fair value. investments in these products generally moderate market risk as they are diversified and invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international product as well as diversification among equity and fixed income portfolios. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. we have chosen to use a variant of each product 's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk, as we believe the volatility in each product 's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each of its investment objectives. the potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of these investments at year-end was determined by using the lower of each product 's lowest net asset value per share during 2017 or its net asset value per share at december 31, 2017 , reduced by 10%. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all product experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. (in millions) fair value 12/31/2017 potential lower value potential loss investments available-for-sale $ 597.1 $ 531.1 $ 66.0 11 % investments trading $ 363.2 $ 311.7 $ 51.5 14 % direct investment in consolidated t. rowe price investment products $ 999.7 $ 844.3 $ 155.4 16 % for available-for-sale investments, any losses arising from changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax, until the investment is disposed of, or if the investment is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. the direct investment in consolidated t. rowe price investment products represents our portion of the net assets of the product . upon consolidation of these products , our direct investment is eliminated and the net assets of the products are combined in our consolidated balance sheet, together with redeemable non-controlling interests, which represents the portion of the products that is owned by unrelated third-party investors. any losses arising from the change in fair value of our direct investments in consolidated t. rowe price investment products would result in a corresponding decrease, net of tax, in our net income attributable to t. rowe price group. certain of our investments, including a few consolidated t. rowe price investment products , expose us to foreign currency translation risk when their foreign denominated financial statements are translated into u.s. dollars (usd). our most significant exposure relates to the translation of the financial statements of our equity method investment in uti ( $155.8 million at december 31, 2017 ). uti's financial statements are denominated in indian rupees (inr) and are translated to usd each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this foreign currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. we had a cumulative translation loss , net of tax, of $30.6 million at december 31, 2017 , related to our investment in uti. given the nature of uti's business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. we operate in several foreign countries of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, although our revenues are predominately realized in usd. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. page 44 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the u.s. mutual funds and other investment products . our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity products , there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based products at the low end and emerging markets products at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income products , though not as widely as equity products , with stable value products and money market products at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bond products at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, without advance notice and with little to no significant penalty. general market declines. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from advisory fees on sponsored portfolios. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decline in equity market valuations may cause investors to transition to lower-fee portfolios such as fixed income, reducing our overall profitability. in addition, international markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations, and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed investment portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular, consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. capacity constraints. prolonged periods of strong relative investment performance and/or strong investor inflows has resulted in and may result in capacity constraints within certain strategies, which can lead to, among other things, the closure of those strategies from additional investor inflows. if certain of our strategies are capacity constrained, our investment results in subsequent periods may be negatively impacted. investing trends. changes in investing trends, particularly investor preference for passive or alternative investment products , and in retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans and target date retirement products , may reduce interest in our products and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. page 11 table of contents geo-political exposure. our managed investment portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations, and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the u.s. mutual funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the u.s. mutual funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each t. rowe price mutual fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each t. rowe price mutual fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days' notice. if a t. rowe price mutual fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the u.s. mutual funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry. competitive pressures may result in a loss of customers and their assets or compel us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, thereby reducing our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from other financial institutions. many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some competitors operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment products offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. most of our investment products are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing products . the market environment in recent years has led investors to increasingly favor lower fee passive investment products. as a result, investment advisors that emphasize passive products have gained and may continue to gain market share from active managers like us. while we believe there will always be demand for good active management, we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain. if current or potential customers decide to move their assets to one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. in the event that we decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, which we have done selectively in the past, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our u.s.-based associates do not have employment contracts, while our associates outside the u.s. have employment contracts where basic employment terms are confirmed in writing. generally our associates can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to attract or retain key personnel. page 12 table of contents due to the global nature of our investment advisory business, our key personnel may have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism and we may be unable to ensure the safety of personnel traveling to these regions. we have near- and long-term succession planning processes, including programs to develop our future leaders, which are intended to address future talent needs and minimize the impact of losing key talent. however, in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational processes could have an adverse effect on our reputation and decrease our revenues. we provide investment management, product administration, product recordkeeping, and tax reporting services to our clients. in certain cases, we rely on third-party vendors in the execution and delivery of these services. there can be no assurance that these vendors will properly perform these processes or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties. failure to properly execute or oversee these services could subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, or litigation. new investment products we introduce could increase the risk that our existing systems may not be adequate to control the risks introduced by such new investment products . in addition, our information systems and technology platforms might not be able to accommodate our continued growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems might increase from its current level. materialization of these risks could disrupt our operations, increase our expenses or result in financial exposure, regulatory inquiry or reputational damage. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client service. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if those inquiries are satisfactorily addressed. additionally, we are subject to the risk that our employees or third parties acting on our behalf may circumvent controls or act in a manner inconsistent with our policies and procedures. real or perceived conflicts between our clients' interests and our own, as well as any fraudulent activity or other exposure of client assets or information, may impair our reputation and subject us to litigation or regulatory action. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: expenses incurred in connection with our multi-year strategic plan to strengthen our long-term competitive position; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, changes in bonuses, stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, market performance, and inflation; changes in the level of our advertising and promotion expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the u.s. and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels; expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; changes in the costs incurred for third-party vendors that perform certain administrative and operating services; a future impairment of investments that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; page 13 table of contents unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent, investment management, trading, and accounting systems. under our agreements with the u.s. mutual funds, we charge the funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. while we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any t. rowe price investment products , any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income . amendments to tax laws may impact the marketability of the products and services we offer our clients or the financial position of the company. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we cannot predict future changes in the tax regulations to which we are subject, and these regulations could have a material impact on our liability or result in increased costs of our tax compliance efforts. additionally, changes in the status of tax deferred investment options, including retirement plans, tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates could cause investors to view certain investment products less favorably and reduce investor demand for products and services we offer, which could have an adverse effect on our assets under management and revenues. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. based on the global nature of our business, from time to time we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines, or penalties). we have a process to evaluate whether to record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our estimates. we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment products in the u.s. and abroad and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. these contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment products , and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our products . it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of investment product offerings and successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment product . these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment product as better meeting their particular clients' needs. we cannot assure that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their clients' assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, climate change, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, page 14 table of contents causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our employees, interrupting our business operations or those of critical service providers, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. a significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the baltimore, maryland region and in london, england. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that those preparations will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise, or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. we also rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for service delivery in addition to technology and disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues, and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial investment portfolio. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant impairments and the recognition of unrealized losses related to t. rowe price products that are consolidated or accounted for under the equity method. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. we may review and pursue acquisition and investment opportunities in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position and these could pose risks. we consider opportunistic acquisitions to grow existing business, add new technologies, or expand distribution. we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, consummate and successfully integrate acquisitions, and no assurance can be given with respect to the timing, likelihood or business effect of any possible transaction. any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, additional or new regulatory requirements, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects on earnings in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. we own a 26% investment in uti asset management company ltd ("uti"), an indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. we are exposed to risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the u.s. and have an equity investment in uti. our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: difficulty in managing, operating, and marketing our international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses, and assets in our u.s. dollar based financial statements; and page 15 table of contents significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. the quantitative models we use may contain errors, which could result in financial losses or adversely impact product performance and client relationships. we use various quantitative models to support investment decisions and processes, including those related to risk assessment, portfolio management, and activities. any errors in the underlying models or model assumptions could have unanticipated and adverse consequences on our business and reputation. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. new regulations present areas of uncertainty susceptible to alternative interpretations; regulators and prospective litigants may not agree with reasoned interpretations we adopt. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients. potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: as part of the debate in washington, d.c. and in state legislatures, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the u.s. retirement system. we could experience adverse business impacts if legislative and regulatory changes limit retirement plans to certain products and services, or favor certain investment vehicles, that we do not offer or are not core to our business. there has been substantial regulatory and legislative activity at federal and state levels regarding standards of care for financial services firms, related to both retirement and taxable accounts. this includes the u.s. department of labor's ("dol") adoption of a fiduciary rule that was ultimately struck down by the fifth circuit court of appeals and the sec's proposal of a package of related rules and interpretations. the ultimate action taken by the dol, sec or other applicable regulatory or legislative body may impact our business activities and increase our costs. the federal reserve board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank systemically important financial institutions ("sifis"), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. it has been suggested that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as sifis. we do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed sifis. further, we do not believe the sifi designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. however, if any t. rowe price fund or t. rowe price affiliate is deemed a sifi, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements. the commodity futures trading commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of t. rowe price investment products to use commodities, futures, swaps, and other derivatives page 16 table of contents without additional registration. if we are required to register, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration. there has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. we remain subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection of data we maintain concerning our customers and employees. these requirements continue to evolve. for example, the european union has adopted changes, effective in may 2018, which, among other things, significantly increased the potential penalties for non-compliance. global regulations on over the counter derivatives are evolving, including new and proposed regulations under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and european market infrastructure regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting, and repositories. in addition, the sec has adopted new regulations that will require mutual funds to adopt liquidity risk management programs with specific requirements for measuring and reporting the liquidity of fund holdings. uncertainty related to requirements of existing regulations as well as yet to be finalized regulations may have negative impacts on currently offered investment strategies. the revised markets in financial instruments directive ("mifid ii directive") and regulation ("mifir") (together mifid ii ) applied across the european union ( eu ) and member states of the european economic area began on january 3, 2018. implementation of mifid ii has significantly impacted both the structure and operation of eu financial markets. some of the main changes introduced under mifid ii include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. compliance with mifid ii has increased our costs, as we began to pay for third-party investment research used by our uk-based investment manager, t. rowe price international ltd, in 2018. we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. however, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. they may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. the changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and, to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees, it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all current minimum requirements; however, a significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss, or an extraordinary charge against net capital could page 17 table of contents adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. united kingdom exit from european union. we have a significant locally authorized and regulated presence in the united kingdom ( uk ) to support our global investment management business. the ultimate impact of the uk exit ( brexit ) from the european union ( eu ), on our business operations in the uk and europe could vary depending on the details of the separation agreement. while we cannot predict the outcome at this time, we are in the process of realigning our eu and uk operations so that we are as prepared if the eu and uk are unable to reach a separation agreement. we remain committed to our clients, associates and business expansion across the region. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure to conduct or expand our operations or if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary or third-party licensed technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems, including those provided by vendors, are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, and other causes. a suspension or termination of vendor-provided software licenses or related support, upgrades, and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. if we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. a cyberattack or a failure to implement effective information and cybersecurity policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses. we are dependent on the effectiveness of the information and cybersecurity policies, procedures and capabilities we maintain to protect our systems and data. an externally caused information security incident, such as a cyberattack, a phishing scam, virus, or denial-of-service attack, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information. in addition, our third-party vendors could be subject to a successful cyberattack or other information security event, and we cannot ensure that such third parties have all appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of information in the custody of those vendors. should our technology operations be compromised, we may have to make significant investments to upgrade, repair or replace our technology infrastructure and may not be able to make such investments on a timely basis. although we maintain insurance coverage that we believe is reasonable, prudent and page 18 table of contents adequate for the purpose of our business, it may be insufficient to protect us against all losses and costs stemming from breaches of security, cyberattacks and other types of unlawful activity, or any resulting disruptions from such events. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients, as well as, proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or detected in a timely manner. we also leverage cloud-based solutions for the transmission and storage of this information. our systems, or those of third-party service providers we may use to maintain and transmit such information, could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code. additionally, authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. furthermore, if any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as u.s. federal and state laws and foreign regulations governing the protection of client data. in addition to gdpr, other governmental authorities throughout the u.s. and around the world are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. for example, in june 2018, the state of california enacted the california consumer privacy act of 2018 ("the ccpa"), which will come into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices, and allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. additionally, the federal trade commission and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. each of these privacy, security, and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, or restrict our use or storage of personal information, which may increase our compliance expenses and make our business more costly or less efficient to conduct. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. equity price risk. the following table presents the equity price risk from our investments in t. rowe price investment products as they are carried at fair value. investments in these products generally moderate market risk as they are diversified and invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price manages its cash and discretionary investments exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among equity and fixed income portfolios as well as many domestic and international product s. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. seed capital investments, which are used for new product offerings, experience market volatility as we do not actively manage the market risk for these investments. in order to quantify the sensitivity of our investments to changes in market valuations, we have chosen to use a variant of each product 's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk, as we believe the volatility in each product 's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each of its investment objectives. the potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of these investments at december 31, 2018 was determined by using the lower of each product 's lowest net asset value per share during 2018 or its net asset value per share at december 31, 2018 , reduced by 10%. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all product experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. (in millions) fair value 12/31/2018 potential lower value potential loss investments in t. rowe price products discretionary investments $ 1,399.0 $ 1,259.1 $ 139.9 10 % seed capital not consolidated 139.4 125.4 14.0 10 % investments designated as an economic hedge of supplemental savings plan liability 381.3 343.2 38.1 10 % total $ 1,919.7 $ 1,727.7 $ 192.0 10 % direct investment in consolidated t. rowe price investment products discretionary investments $ 19.2 $ 17.1 $ 2.1 11 % seed capital 882.2 784.1 98.1 11 % total $ 901.4 $ 801.2 $ 100.2 11 % investment partnerships and other investments held at fair value $ 99.6 $ 79.8 $ 19.8 20 % any losses arising from the change in fair value of investments in t. rowe price products would result in a corresponding decrease, net of tax, in our net income attributable to t. rowe price group. the direct investment in consolidated t. rowe price investment products represents our portion of the net assets of the product . upon consolidation of these products , our direct investment is eliminated and the net assets of the products are combined in our consolidated balance sheet, together with redeemable non-controlling interests, which represents the portion of the products that is owned by unrelated third-party investors. any losses arising from the change in fair value of our direct investments in consolidated t. rowe price investment products would also result in a corresponding decrease, net of tax, in our net income attributable to t. rowe price group. page 47 table of contents currency translation risk. certain of our investments, including a few consolidated t. rowe price investment products , expose us to currency translation risk when the financial statements are translated into u.s. dollars ("usd"). our most significant exposure relates to the translation of the financial statements of our equity method investment in uti ( $152.4 million at december 31, 2018 ). uti's financial statements are denominated in indian rupees ("inr") and are translated to usd each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. we had a cumulative translation loss , net of tax, of $48.8 million at december 31, 2018 , related to our investment in uti. given the nature of uti's business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. we operate in several countries outside the u.s. of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than usd associated with these operations, although our revenues are predominately realized in usd. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. page 48 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors. an investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec. investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. there may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock. risks relating to our business and the financial services industry. our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control. we derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the u.s. mutual funds and other investment products . our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. we generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. among equity products , there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based products at the low end and emerging markets products at the high end. fees also vary across the fixed income products , though not as widely as equity products , with stable value products and money market products at the lower end and non-u.s. dollar denominated bond products at the high end. as a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including: investment performance. if the investment performance of our managed investment portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. institutional investors in particular, consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. general market declines. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from advisory fees on sponsored portfolios. a downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management. a decline in equity market valuations may cause investors to transition to lower-fee portfolios such as fixed income, reducing our overall profitability. in addition, international markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations, and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. investor mobility. our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, without advance notice and with little to no significant penalty. capacity constraints. prolonged periods of strong relative investment performance and/or strong investor inflows has resulted in and may result in capacity constraints within certain strategies, which can lead to, among other things, the closure of those strategies from additional investor inflows. if certain of our strategies are capacity constrained, our investment results in subsequent periods may be negatively impacted. investing trends. changes in investing trends, particularly investor preference for passive or alternative investment products , and in retirement savings trends, may reduce interest in our products and may alter our mix of assets under management. interest rate changes. investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates. geo-political exposure. our managed investment portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations, illiquidity and capital controls, and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. a decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, particularly in market segments where our assets are concentrated, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. for any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely 20 page 12 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. a significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the u.s. mutual funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice. we provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the u.s. mutual funds under various agreements. investment advisory services are provided to each t. rowe price mutual fund under individual investment management agreements. the board of each t. rowe price mutual fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days' notice. if a t. rowe price mutual fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the u.s. mutual funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. we operate in an intensely competitive industry. competitive pressures may result in a loss of customers and their assets or compel us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, thereby reducing our revenues and net income. we are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from other financial institutions. some of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. some competitors operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. we compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment products offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. substantially all of our investment products are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing products . the market environment in recent years has led investors to increasingly favor lower fee passive investment products. as a result, investment advisors that emphasize passive products have gained and may continue to gain market share from active managers like us. while we believe there will always be demand for good active management, we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain. if current or potential customers decide to move their assets to one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. in the event that we decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, which we have done selectively in the past, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted. our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. our u.s.-based associates do not have employment contracts, while our associates outside the u.s. have employment contracts where basic employment terms are confirmed in writing. generally, our associates can terminate their employment with us at any time. we cannot assure that we will be able to attract or retain key personnel. due to the global nature of our investment advisory business, our key personnel may have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism and we may be unable to ensure the safety of personnel traveling to these regions. we have near- and long-term succession planning processes, including programs to develop our future leaders, which are intended to address future talent needs and minimize the impact of losing key talent. however, in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. the loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially. 20 page 13 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational processes could have an adverse effect on our reputation and decrease our revenues. we provide investment management, product administration, product recordkeeping, and tax reporting services to our clients. in certain cases, we rely on third-party vendors in the execution and delivery of these services. there can be no assurance that these vendors will properly perform these processes or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties. failure to properly execute or oversee these services could subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, or litigation. new investment strategies, investment vehicles, distribution channels, or other evolutions of our business may increase the risk that our existing systems may not be adequate to control the risks introduced by such changes. significant business changes may require us to update our processes or technology and may increase risk to meeting our business objectives. in addition, our information systems and technology platforms might not be able to accommodate our continued growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems might increase from its current level. if any of these factors were to arise it could disrupt our operations, increase our expenses or result in financial exposure, regulatory inquiry or reputational damage. the quantitative models we use may contain errors, which could result in financial losses or adversely impact product performance and client relationships. we use various quantitative models to support investment decisions and processes, including those related to risk assessment, portfolio management, and activities. any errors in the underlying models or model assumptions could have unanticipated and adverse consequences on our business and reputation. changes to benchmark indices may impact our business. the manner in which certain reference rates are calculated could impact the investment portfolios we manage. the withdrawal and replacement of widely used benchmark indices such as the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) with alternative benchmark rates may introduce a number of risks for our business. the fca in the u.k., which regulates libor, has announced that it will no longer compel panel banks to submit rates for libor after 2021. changes in the method pursuant to which libor is determined or the discontinuance of libor may adversely affect the amount of interest payable or interest receivable on certain portfolio investments. these changes may also impact the market liquidity and market value of these portfolio investments. any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. we have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client service. our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if those inquiries are satisfactorily addressed. additionally, we are subject to the risk that our employees or third parties acting on our behalf may circumvent controls or act in a manner inconsistent with our policies and procedures. real or perceived conflicts between our clients' interests and our own, as well as any fraudulent activity or other exposure of client assets or information, may impair our reputation and subject us to litigation or regulatory action. any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income. our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including: expenses incurred in connection with our multi-year strategic plan to strengthen our long-term competitive position; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, changes in bonuses, stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, market performance, and inflation; 20 page 14 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg changes in the level of our advertising and promotion expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the u.s. and further penetrating u.s. distribution channels; expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development; changes in the costs incurred for third-party vendors that perform certain administrative and operating services; changes in expenses that are correlated to our assets under management, such as distribution and servicing fees; a future impairment of investments that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet; unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad; unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and future changes to legal and regulatory requirements and potential litigation; disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent, investment management, trading, and accounting systems. under our agreements with the u.s. mutual funds, we charge the funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. if we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. while we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any t. rowe price investment products , any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income . amendments to tax laws may impact the marketability of the products and services we offer our clients or the financial position of the company. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we cannot predict future changes in the tax regulations to which we are subject, and these regulations could have a material impact on our liability or result in increased costs of our tax compliance efforts. additionally, changes in the status of tax deferred investment options, including retirement plans, tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates could cause investors to view certain investment products less favorably and reduce investor demand for products and services we offer, which could have an adverse effect on our assets under management and revenues. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. based on the global nature of our business, from time to time, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines, or penalties). we have a process to evaluate whether to record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our estimates. we have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment products and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future. these contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment products , and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our products . it would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of investment product offerings and successful distribution relationships. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial 20 page 15 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment product . these professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment product as better meeting their particular clients' needs. we cannot assure that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their clients' assets under our management. mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. the presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts. natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations. armed conflicts, trade wars, tariffs or sanctions, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, climate change, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, and net income by: decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage, causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive, incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our employees, interrupting our business operations or those of critical service providers, triggering technology delays or failures, and requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations. a significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the baltimore, maryland region and in london, england. in addition, we maintain offices with associates in many other global locations such as sydney, australia; hong kong; singapore; tokyo, japan; and luxembourg. we have developed various backup systems and contingency plans, but we cannot be assured that those preparations will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise, or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. we also rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for service delivery in addition to technology and disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. if we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues, and materially reduced net income. our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio. we currently have a substantial investment portfolio. all of these investments are subject to investment market risk, and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant impairments and the recognition of unrealized losses related to t. rowe price products that are consolidated or accounted for under the equity method. in addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future. we may review and pursue strategic transactions in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position and these could pose risks. from time to time, we consider strategic opportunities, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, organizational restructurings, joint ventures or similar transactions, any of which may impact our business. we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, consummate and successfully complete such transactions, and no assurance can be given with respect to the timing, likelihood or business effect of any possible transaction. these initiatives typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges to our ongoing business operations. in addition, acquisitions and related transactions involve risks, including unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, additional or new 20 page 16 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg regulatory requirements, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects on our earnings in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. we own a 26% investment in uti asset management company ltd ("uti"), an indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. we may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future. we are exposed to risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the u.s. and have an equity investment in uti. our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks: difficulty in managing, operating, and marketing our international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses, and assets in our u.s. dollar based financial statements; and significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments. legal and regulatory risks. compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties. if we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. a regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income. legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders. our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. new regulations present areas of uncertainty susceptible to alternative interpretations; regulators and prospective litigants may not agree with reasoned interpretations we adopt. future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations or impact our expenses and profitability. additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients. potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following: as part of the debate in washington, d.c. and in state legislatures, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the u.s. retirement system. we could experience adverse business impacts if legislative and regulatory changes limit retirement plans to certain products and services, or favor certain investment vehicles, that we do not offer or are not core to our business. there has been substantial regulatory and legislative activity at federal and state levels regarding standards of care for financial services firms, related to both retirement and taxable accounts. actions taken by applicable regulatory or legislative bodies may impact our business activities and increase our costs. the federal reserve board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank systemically important financial institutions ("sifis"), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. at this time, us 20 page 17 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg regulators have not designated mutual funds or traditional asset managers as non-bank sifis. however, if any t. rowe price fund or t. rowe price affiliate was deemed a sifi, increased regulatory oversight would apply to our business, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements. the commodity futures trading commission ("cftc") has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of t. rowe price investment products to use futures, swaps, and other derivatives without additional registration. as such, we intend to register certain subsidiaries with the cftc which would subject us to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registrations. there has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products. we remain subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection of data we maintain concerning our customers and employees. these requirements continue to evolve. for example, california has adopted regulations, effective in january 1, 2020, which, among other things, significantly increased the potential penalties for non-compliance. after the 2008 financial crisis, global regulations on over-the-counter derivatives spearheaded by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act in the united states and european market infrastructure regulation in the european union ("eu") have imposed clearing, margin, trade reporting, electronic trading and recordkeeping requirements on market participants. alongside their general stabilizing and risk-reducing effect on the markets, these requirements have introduced operational complexity and additional costs to derivatives portfolios. the revised markets in financial instruments directive ("mifid ii directive") and regulation ("mifir") (together mifid ii ) applied across the eu and member states of the european economic area beginning on january 3, 2018. implementation of mifid ii has significantly impacted both the structure and operation of eu financial markets. some of the main changes introduced under mifid ii include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. compliance with mifid ii has increased operational complexity and increased our costs. for example, we began to pay for third-party investment research used by our uk-based investment manager, t. rowe price international ltd, in 2018, and we now pay for all the research needs of our investment professionals globally. we cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. however, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. they may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. the changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and, to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees, it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer. we may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance. we are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. an adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. from time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. there also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties. we carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. we cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. as our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. 20 page 18 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all current minimum requirements; however, a significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss, or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them. united kingdom exit from european union. we have a significant locally authorized and regulated presence in the united kingdom ( uk ) to support our global investment management business. the ultimate impact of the uk exit ( brexit ) from the european union ( eu ), on our business operations in the uk and europe could vary depending on the details of the separation agreement or any subsequent trade relationship between the uk and eu. while we cannot predict the outcome at this time, we have realigned our eu and uk operations so that we are as prepared if the eu and uk are unable to reach a separation agreement or future trade agreement. we remain committed to our clients, associates and business expansion across the region. technology risks. we require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure to conduct or expand our operations or if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. we depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary or third-party licensed technology to support our business functions, including among others: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and regulatory compliance and reporting. all of our technology systems, including those provided by vendors, are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, and other causes. a suspension or termination of vendor-provided software licenses or related support, upgrades, and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and liability to our customers. in addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands. we might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. if we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. a cyberattack or a failure to implement effective information and cybersecurity policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses. we are dependent on the effectiveness of the information and cybersecurity policies, procedures and capabilities we maintain to protect our systems and data. an externally caused information security incident, such as a 20 page 19 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg cyberattack, a phishing scam, virus, ransomware attack or denial-of-service attack, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information. in addition, our third-party vendors and other intermediaries with which we conduct business and transmit data could be subject to a successful cyberattack or other information security event, and we cannot ensure that such third parties have all appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of information in the custody of those third parties. there have been increasing numbers of publicized cybersecurity incidents in recent years impacting other financial services firms as well as firms in other industries. our use of third-party vendors and cloud technologies could heighten this risk. should our technology operations be compromised, we may have to make significant investments to upgrade, repair or replace our technology infrastructure and may not be able to make such investments on a timely basis. although we maintain insurance coverage that we believe is reasonable, prudent and adequate for the purpose of our business, it may be insufficient to protect us against all losses and costs stemming from breaches of security, cyberattacks and other types of unlawful activity, or any resulting disruptions from such events. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard and maintain sensitive and confidential information. as part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients, associates and other parties, as well as, proprietary information relating to our business operations. we maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data, is either prevented or detected in a timely manner. we also leverage cloud-based solutions for the transmission and storage of this information. our systems, or those of third-party service providers we may use to maintain and transmit such information, could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code. additionally, authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things: seriously damage our reputation, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard personal or confidential data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, and require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. furthermore, if any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to personal or confidential data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as u.s. federal and state laws and foreign regulations governing the protection of personal or confidential data. in addition to the eu's general data protection regulation , other governmental authorities throughout the u.s. and around the world are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. for example, the california consumer privacy act of 2018 (the ccpa"), came into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices, and allows consumers to opt out of any sales of their data to third parties and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. additionally, the federal trade commission and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the collection, use, dissemination and security of data. each of these privacy, security, and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, or restrict our use or storage of personal information, which may increase our compliance expenses and make our business more costly or less efficient to conduct. 20 page 20 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. equity price risk. the following table presents the equity price risk from our investments in t. rowe price investment products as they are carried at fair value. investments in these products generally moderate market risk as they are diversified and invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price manages its cash and discretionary investments exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among equity and fixed income portfolios. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. seed capital investments, which are used for new product offerings, experience market volatility as we do not actively manage the market risk for these investments. in order to quantify the sensitivity of our investments to changes in market valuations, we have chosen to use a variant of each product 's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk, as we believe the volatility in each product 's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each of its investment objectives. the potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of these investments at december 31, 2019 was determined by using the lower of each product 's lowest net asset value per share during 2019 or its net asset value per share at december 31, 2019 , reduced by 10%. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all product experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. (in millions) fair value 12/31/2019 potential lower value potential loss investments in t. rowe price products discretionary investments $ 1,221.8 $ 1,099.6 $ 122.2 10 % seed capital not consolidated 181.1 157.5 23.6 13 % investments designated as an economic hedge of supplemental savings plan liability 561.1 474.4 86.7 15 % total $ 1,964.0 $ 1,731.5 $ 232.5 12 % direct investment in consolidated t. rowe price investment products discretionary investments $ 67.8 $ 58.3 $ 9.5 14 % seed capital 1,048.9 905.3 143.6 14 % total $ 1,116.7 $ 963.6 $ 153.1 14 % investment partnerships and other investments held at fair value $ 99.7 $ 82.6 $ 17.1 17 % any losses arising from the change in fair value of investments in t. rowe price products would result in a corresponding decrease, net of tax, in our net income attributable to t. rowe price group. the direct investment in consolidated t. rowe price investment products represents our portion of the net assets of the product . upon consolidation of these products , our direct investment is eliminated, and the net assets of the products are combined in our consolidated balance sheet, together with redeemable non-controlling interests, which represents the portion of the products that is owned by unrelated third-party investors. any losses arising from the change in fair value of our direct investments in consolidated t. rowe price investment products would also result in a corresponding decrease, net of tax, in our net income attributable to t. rowe price group. 20 page 48 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mg currency translation risk. certain of our investments, including a few consolidated t. rowe price investment products , expose us to currency translation risk when the financial statements are translated into u.s. dollars ("usd"). our most significant exposure relates to the translation of the financial statements of our equity method investment in uti ( $164.5 million at december 31, 2019 ). uti's financial statements are denominated in indian rupees ("inr") and are translated to usd each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. we had a cumulative translation loss , net of tax, of $46.9 million at december 31, 2019 , related to our investment in uti. given the nature of uti's business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. we operate in several countries outside the u.s. of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than usd associated with these operations, although our revenues are predominately realized in usd. the majority of our currency translation risk on our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2019 , related to cash and non-consolidated investments of $284.6 million that are denominated in foreign currencies. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. 20 page 49 table of contents c &lt;l3q6*4v9%c:mgrisk factors 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the following table (in millions) presents the equity price risk from investments in sponsored mutual funds that are accounted for as available-for-sale securities by assuming a hypothetical decline in the fair values of mutual fund shares. this potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund investments at year-end using each fund lowest net asset value per share during 2011. in considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all funds experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below. fair value 12/31/2011 percentage of portfolio potential lower value percentage of portfolio potential loss stock and blended asset funds $ 417.9 55 % $ 377.7 53 % $ 40.2 10 % bond funds 346.6 45 % 338.7 47 % 7.9 2 % $ 764.5 100 % $ 716.4 100 % $ 48.1 6 % the comparable potential loss of value presented in our 2010 annual report was $109.1 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $747.9 million. during 2011, we actually experienced net unrealized losses of $40.2 million. page 35 table of contents because our fund holdings are considered available-for-sale securities, we recognize unrealized losses that are considered temporary in other comprehensive income. we review the carrying amount of each investment on a quarterly basis and recognize an impairment charge in non-operating investment income (loss) whenever an unrealized loss is considered other than temporary. investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of different financial instruments. t. rowe price further manages its exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among many domestic and international funds. in addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. the investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. if interest rates change 1%, the change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material. we also hold other investments of $206.3 million at december 31, 2011, including our $144.8 million equity investment in uti. given the nature of uti business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount. in addition, our investment in uti exposes us to foreign currency risk related to translating our proportionate share of their financial statements, which are denominated in indian rupees (inr), to u.s. dollars(usd) each reporting period. we do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this foreign currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the inr against the usd will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. our cumulative translation loss, net of tax, at december 31, 2011, was $5.6 million. we operate in several foreign countries of which the united kingdom is the most prominent. we incur operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities associated with these operations, though our revenues are predominately realized in usd. we do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations. page 36 table of contents