quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ................ 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at june 30, 2002. actual results may differ materially. at the end of fiscal 2002, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $883 million, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements found under item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" in this annual report on form 10-k). these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2002, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $6 million. as of june 30, 2002, we had net forward contracts to sell $115 million in foreign currency in order to hedge currency exposures (detail of these contracts is incorporated by reference from note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under "derivative instruments". if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2002, the u.s. dollar equivalent would be $124 million. a 10% adverse move in currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $15 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that the hedging of our foreign currency exposure should have no material impact on income or cash flows.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at june 30, 2003. actual results may differ materially. at the end of fiscal 2003, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $858 million, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements found under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k). these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2003, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $1 million. as of june 30, 2003, we had net forward contracts to sell $56 million in foreign currency in order to hedge currency exposures (detail of these contracts is incorporated by reference from note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under derivative instruments. if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2003, the u.s. dollar equivalent would be $55 million. a 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $23 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that the hedging of our foreign currency exposure should have no material impact on income or cash flows. page 47risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49risk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50risk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58risk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61risk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57risk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59risk factors 20 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60risk factors 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59risk factors 13 item 1b unresolved staff comments 21 item 2. properties 22 item 3. legal proceedings 23 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 28 part ii item 5. market for the registrant common stock, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 29 item 6. selected financial data 30 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 33 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 50 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 51 consolidated balance sheets at june 30, 2006 and june 30, 2005 52 consolidated statements of operations for each of the three years in the period ended june 30, 2006 53 consolidated statements of stockholders equity for each of the three years in the period ended june 30, 2006 54 consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended june 30, 2006 55 notes to consolidated financial statements 56 report of independent registered public accounting firm 101 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 103 item 9a. controls and procedures 103 item 9b. other information 109 part iii item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant 110 item 11. executive compensation 117 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 122 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions 124 item 14. principal independent registered public accounting firm fees and services 127 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedule 128 signatures 131 schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts 132 exhibit index 133 i table of contents special note regarding forward-looking statements this report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. all statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. you can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as may, will, could, would, should, expects, plans, anticipates, relies, believes, estimates, predicts, intends, potential, continue, or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. such forward-looking statements include, among others, those statements regarding the future impact of the restatement of our historical financial statements, shareholder litigation and related matters arising from the discovery that we had retroactively priced stock options (primarily from july 1, 1997 to june 30, 2002) and had not accounted for them correctly; forecasts of the future results of our operations; the percentage of spending that our customers allocate to process control; orders for our products and capital equipment generally; sales of semiconductors; the allocation of capital spending by our customers; growth of revenue in the semiconductor industry, the semiconductor capital equipment industry and business; technological trends in the semiconductor industry; our future product offerings and product features; the success and market acceptance of new products; timing of shipment of backlog; the future of our product shipments and our product and service revenues; our future gross margins; the future of our selling, general and administrative expenses; international sales and operations; maintenance of our competitive advantage; success of our product offerings; creation and funding of programs for research and development; attraction and retention of employees; results of our investment in leading edge technologies; the effects of hedging transactions; the effect of the sale of trade receivables and promissory notes from customers; our future income tax rate; dividends; the completion of any acquisitions of third parties, or the technology or assets thereof; benefits received from any acquisitions and development of acquired technologies; sufficiency of our existing cash balance, investments and cash generated from operations to meet our operating and working capital requirements; and the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements in this report. factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in item 1a, risk factors as well as in item 1, business and item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k. you should carefully review these risks and also review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission, including the quarterly reports on form 10-q that we will file in fiscal year 2007. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and we expressly assume no obligations to update the forward-looking statements in this report that occur after the date hereof. explanatory note regarding restatements this annual report on form 10-k for our fiscal year ended june 30, 2006 includes restatements of the following previously filed financial statements and data (and related disclosures): (1) our consolidated financial statements as of and for our fiscal years ended june 30, 2005 and 2004; (2) our selected consolidated financial data as of and for our fiscal years ended june 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, and (3) our unaudited quarterly financial data for the first three quarters in our fiscal year ended june 30, 2006 and for all quarters in our fiscal year ended june 30, 2005. see note 2, restatement of consolidated financial statements, to consolidated financial statements and exhibit 99.1 for a detailed discussion of the effect of the restatements. as a result of an investigation of our historical stock option practices by a special committee of our board of directors (see item 3 legal proceedings), we discovered that certain of our stock options, primarily those granted from july 1, 1997 to june 30, 2002, had been retroactively priced for all employees who received these grants (less than 15% of these options were granted to executive officers). this means that the option exercise price was not the market price of the option shares on the actual grant date of the option, but instead was ii table of contents a lower market price on an earlier date. the actual grant date when the essential actions necessary to grant the option were completed, including the final determination of the number of shares to be granted to each employee and the exercise price is the correct measurement date to determine the market price of the option shares under the accounting rules in effect at the time. more than 95% of the total in-the-money value (market price on the actual grant date minus exercise price) of all of our retroactively priced options was attributable to those granted from july 1, 1997 to june 30, 2002. we previously applied accounting principles board ( apb ) opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees, and its related interpretations and provided the required pro forma disclosures under statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation, through the fiscal year ended june 30, 2005. under apb opinion no. 25, a non-cash, stock-based compensation expense was recognized for any option for which the exercise price was below the market price on the actual grant date. because each of our retroactively priced options had an exercise price below the market price on the actual grant date, there should have been a charge for each of these options under apb opinion no. 25 equal to the number of option shares, multiplied by the difference between the exercise price and the market price on the actual grant date. that expense should have been amortized over the vesting period of the option. starting in our fiscal year ended june 30, 2006, we adopted sfas no. 123(r), share-based payment. as a result, for fiscal year 2006, the additional stock-based compensation expense required to be recorded for each retroactively priced option was equal to the incremental fair value of these options on the actual grant date over the remaining vesting period of the option. we did not record these stock-based compensation expenses under apb opinion no. 25 or sfas no. 123(r) related to our retroactively priced options in our previously issued financial statements, and that is why we are restating them in this filing. to correct our past accounting for stock options, we recorded additional pre-tax, non-cash, stock-based compensation expense of (a) $348 million for the periods july 1, 1994 to june 30, 2005 under apb opinion no. 25 and (b) $22 million for the year ended june 30, 2006 under sfas no. 123(r). we expect to amortize an additional $6 million of such pre-tax charges under sfas no. 123(r) in future periods to properly account for past retroactively priced option grants. management reviewed the findings of the special committee and conducted its own internal review of our past stock option grants and other aspects of our historical financial statements. management agrees with the special committee that there was retroactive pricing of stock options granted to all option holders, primarily from july 1, 1997 to june 30, 2002. the restatements included in this annual report on form 10-k include adjustments arising from the special committee investigation and management internal review. unless otherwise noted, all of the information in this annual report on form 10-k is as of june 30, 2006. this report does not reflect any subsequent events that occurred after june 30, 2006 other than the special committee investigation, resulting restatements and related matters. our previously filed financial statements for the quarter ended september 30, 2005 are restated in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2006, which we are filing concurrently with this annual report on form 10-k. we will later restate our previously filed financial statements for the quarters ended december 31, 2005 and march 31, 2006 when included in our quarterly reports on form 10-q for the quarters ended december 31, 2006 and march 31, 2007, respectively. the selected quarterly condensed consolidated financial data and related management discussion and analysis for the quarters ended september 30, 2005, december 31, 2005 and march 31, 2006 are included in exhibit 99.1 of this annual report on form 10-k. we have not amended and do not intend to amend any of our previously filed annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q for the periods affected by the restatements. such previous filings should not be relied upon. iii table of contents part i item 1. business the company kla-tencor corporation ( kla-tencor or the company and also referred to as we or our ) is the world leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions, for the semiconductor and related microelectronics industries. our comprehensive portfolio of products, services, analysis, software, and expertise is designed to help integrated circuit ( ic ) manufacturers manage yield throughout the entire fabrication process from research and development to final mass-production yield analysis. we offer a broad spectrum of products and services that are used by virtually every major wafer, ic and photomask manufacturer in the world. these customers turn to us for inline wafer defect monitoring; reticle and photomask defect inspection; critical dimension ( cd ) metrology; wafer overlay; film and surface measurement; and overall yield and fab-wide data analysis. our advanced products, coupled with our unique yield technology services, allow us to deliver the yield management solutions our customers need to accelerate their yield learning rates, reduce their yield excursion risks and adopt industry-leading yield management practices. kla-tencor corporation was formed in april 1997 through the merger of kla instruments corporation and tencor instruments, two long-time leaders in the semiconductor equipment industry, each with over 20 years of experience. kla instruments corporation was incorporated in delaware in 1975; tencor instruments was incorporated in california in 1976. effective april 30, 1997, tencor instruments merged into a wholly owned subsidiary of kla instruments corporation. immediately following this merger, kla instruments corporation changed its name to kla-tencor corporation. additional information about kla-tencor is available on our web site at www.kla-tencor.com. we make available free of charge on our web site our annual report on form 10-k, our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). information contained on our web site is not part of this annual report on form 10-k or our other filings with the sec. additionally, these filings may be obtained by visiting the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 or by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330, by sending an electronic message to the sec at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the sec at 1-202-777-1027. in addition, the sec maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. industry general background the semiconductor fabrication process begins with a bare silicon wafer a round disk that is six, eight or twelve inches in diameter, about as thick as a credit card and gray in color. the process of manufacturing wafers is itself highly sophisticated, involving the creation of large ingots of silicon by pulling them out of a vat of molten silicon. the ingots are then sliced into wafers and polished to a mirror finish on the side where the circuits are to be made. the manufacturing cycle of an integrated circuit ( ic or chip ) is grouped into three phases: design, fabrication and testing. ic design involves the architectural layout of the circuit, as well as design verification and photomask or reticle generation. the fabrication of a chip is accomplished by depositing a series of film layers that act as conductors, semiconductors or insulators. the deposition of these film layers is interspersed with numerous other process steps that create circuit patterns, remove portions of the film layers, and perform 1 table of contents other functions such as heat treatment, measurement and inspection. most advanced chip designs require over 500 individual steps, many of which are performed multiple times. most chips consist of two main structures: the lower structure, typically consisting of transistors or capacitors, which perform the smart functions of the chip; and the upper structure, typically consisting of interconnect circuitry, which connects the components in the lower structure. when all of the layers on the wafer have been completed, each die on the wafer is then tested for functionality. the wafer is placed on a prober that is used to attach the input/output pins of the device to a tester. when chips are tested on the wafer, it is called sort test. a sort test determines which chips are good. the wafer is then cut up, and the good die are bonded to lead frames that contain pins used to attach the chip to the outside printed circuit board. wires are bonded from the input/output pads of the ic to the pins of the lead-frame. then the lead frame is encapsulated in packages typically made of plastic or ceramic materials. the packaged parts are put through a final test and then shipped to customers. this entire packaging and testing process is called the back end. current trends companies that anticipate future market demands by developing and refining new technologies and manufacturing processes are better positioned to lead in the semiconductor market. during past industry cycles, semiconductor manufacturers generally contended with one key new technology or market trend, such as a specific design rule shrink. in today market, the leading semiconductor manufacturers are investing in bringing a multitude of new technologies into production at the same time, including copper interconnects, new substrate and transistor materials, advanced lithography techniques and 300-mm (12-inch) wafers. while many of these technologies have been adopted at the development and pilot production stages, significant challenges and risks associated with each technology have affected their adoption into full-volume production. for example, as design rules decrease, yields become more sensitive to the size and density of defects, while device performance characteristics (namely speed or capacity) become more sensitive to such parameters as linewidth and film thickness variation. copper introduces new physical defects, which are harder to find within the interconnect structure, as well as electrical defects, which cannot be detected using conventional optical inspection systems. new process materials, such as low-k dielectrics, silicon-on-insulator ( soi ) and 193-nm photoresists require extensive characterization before they can be readied for the manufacturing process. film uniformity is also more difficult to maintain on larger wafers. moving several of these advanced technologies into production at once only adds to the risks that chipmakers face, since technical challenges in bringing any one of these into production could also slow the adoption of the other technologies. the focus of our activities has been the development of new process control and yield management tools that enable chipmakers to accelerate the adoption of these new technologies into full-volume production, while minimizing their associated risks. with our portfolio of application-focused technologies and our dedicated yield technology expertise, we are in position to be a key supplier of comprehensive yield management solutions that enable our customers to achieve success for their next-generation products. the continuing evolution of semiconductor devices to smaller linewidth geometries and more complex multi-level circuitry has significantly increased the cost and performance requirements of the capital equipment used to manufacture these devices. construction of an advanced wafer fabrication facility today can cost over $3 billion, substantially more than previous generation facilities. as a result, chipmakers are demanding increased productivity and higher returns from their manufacturing equipment. our process control and yield management equipment enables our customers to better leverage these increasingly expensive facilities and significantly improve their return on investment ( roi ) helping them to become low-cost producers. our process control and yield acceleration solutions accelerating the yield ramp and maximizing production yields of high-performance devices are key goals of modern semiconductor manufacturing. ramping to high-volume production ahead of competitors can dramatically increase the revenue an ic manufacturer realizes for a given product. kla-tencor systems not only 2 table of contents analyze defectivity and metrology issues at critical points in the wafer, photomask and ic manufacturing processes, but also provide information to our customers so that they can identify and address the underlying process problems. the ability to locate the source of defects and characterize process issues enables our customers to improve control over their manufacturing processes, so they can increase their yield of high-performance parts thus maximizing their profit. products kla-tencor operates in one segment for the design, manufacture and marketing of process control and yield management systems for the semiconductor and related microelectronics industry. we design, market, manufacture and sell our equipment consisting of patterned and unpatterned wafer inspection, optical overlay metrology, electron-beam (e-beam) review, reticle and photomask inspection, spectroscopic, and film and surface measurement tools as well as our advanced yield analysis and defect classification software to provide fab-wide yield management solutions. these solutions are optimized for the manufacturing process cells used in ic production, including lithography, deposition, etch, and chemical mechanical planarization (cmp). our offerings can be broadly categorized into four groups: defect inspection; metrology; services; software and other. for our customers manufacturing larger design-rule devices, we provide refurbished kla-tencor certified tools along with warranty and support. defect inspection kla-tencor defect inspection tools are used to detect, count, classify and characterize particles, pattern defects, surface anomalies and electrical failures during all stages of the ic manufacturing process, from new product development through yield ramp to baseline yield improvement during volume production. our portfolio includes the tools that enable our customers to find new defect types during development and ramp, and monitor defect level by type during production. kla-tencor defect inspection, review and analysis tools find, identify and locate the source of all types of physical and electrical defects, on all layers. high-sensitivity broadband brightfield inspection as our customers move to 65nm production and begin development of the 45nm node, they face a plethora of new defect types and noise sources as well as a dramatic rise in systematic defects, arising from the adoption of new materials, device structures and lithography techniques. the magnitude of these defect challenges calls for inspection solutions with improved sensitivity and greater range of defect type capture on all layers. in response to these needs, kla-tencor unveiled its new 2800 series full-spectrum brightfield inspection platform in july 2005. the 2800 features a unique broadband light source spanning deep ultraviolet (duv), uv and visible wavelengths, and a proprietary optical design that maximizes sensitivity at all throughput settings. this new full-spectrum brightfield inspector has the ability to tune its wavelength to optimize defect capture on each layer. the 2800 series delivers the high-sensitivity and production-worthy performance that chipmakers need to produce market-leading 65nm devices. high-performance darkfield inspection in july 2005, we unveiled the puma 9000 series ( puma ), our latest-generation darkfield inspection platform. puma represents a marked departure from traditional darkfield tools, which are based on acousto-optical device ( aod ) scanners and photo-multiplier tube ( pmt ) detectors technologies that are reaching their limits. puma replaces the aod/pmt technology with our patented streak imaging technology. scalable for multiple technology generations, streak combines advanced uv-laser illumination optics with a solid-state, multi-pixel linear sensor to image the scattered light. the result is an inspection system with higher sensitivity at production throughputs than can be achieved with traditional aod/pmt-based inspection systems. puma can be configured to accommodate applications ranging from process tool monitoring through critical etch line monitoring, allowing our customers to cost-optimize their inspection strategies and achieve tighter production control. 3 table of contents electron-beam inspection for advanced ic manufacturing, e-beam inspection is essential not only during ic development, where the highest sensitivity is needed to root out defects, but also in production, where dedicated systems are required to monitor key process steps. only e-beam technology can find the smallest physical defects and the subtle electrical defects that plague customers as they introduce new materials and device structures at the 65nm and 45nm nodes. in february 2006, we introduced the latest addition to our es3x series of e-beam inspection systems the es32 . a single system spanning development and production applications, the es32 provides the best sensitivity at throughput for defect types that optical systems cannot find. wafer and film surface inspection all chipmakers extensively utilize inspection tools to detect defects on blanket (unpatterned) films and bare wafer surfaces. in 2004, we unveiled the surfscan sp2 which incorporates a new uv illumination technology to significantly enhance inspection sensitivity and speed on ic films, as well as both traditional silicon and engineered substrates. surfscan sp2 is capable of detecting defects as small as 30nm at higher throughputs than those of the previous-generation surfscan sp1 dls tool. wafer surface inspection: the wafer substrate is the foundation of an integrated circuit. having a defect-free wafer substrate is essential, since defects on the surface of the wafer can adversely affect subsequent semiconductor processes, and ultimately impact ic performance. at the 65nm node and beyond, transistor performance in high-end devices depends critically on the physical and electrical properties of the wafer surface below it. epitaxial silicon layers and engineered substrates, such as silicon-on-insulator (soi), have become important substrate materials with associated challenges. the surfscan sp2 is the industry standard advanced wafer inspection system, and is being adopted by virtually all wafer manufacturers worldwide to provide critical quality control. unpatterned surface inspection : ic applications for the surfscan sp1 and surfscan sp2 inspectors include not only incoming wafer surface quality measurements, but also process tool qualification and monitoring. instead of inspecting a patterned wafer, a bare or blanket-film wafer can be used to qualify new process tools, periodically check process tools already in production, or qualify process tools after maintenance. advanced fabs require accurate and rapid disposition decision making during manufacturing, as well as quick assessment of tool and process module output. operators have historically performed this task by visually inspecting a small sample of wafers under a manual or semi-automated light microscope. however, advanced 300mm manufacturing, with large wafer surfaces, smaller device features, and factory automation, challenges the ability of the operator to reliably and repeatably assess the wafer and lot. these conditions place large quantities of valuable wafers at risk. viper 2435 is an automated 300mm wafer and tool dispositioning system that captures a broad range of defect types at very high throughput enabling inspection of 100% of wafer lots. delivering quick go/no-go decisions, the system enables fab engineers to take corrective action early, when wafers can be reworked or process tool problems can be repaired before additional lots are put at risk. viper 2435 can be integrated rapidly and seamlessly into a production environment in the lithography, cmp, etch, and films process modules. reticle inspection error-free reticles are the first step in ensuring high yields in the manufacturing process, since defects in reticles can be replicated on wafers. reticles are high-precision quartz plates that contain microscopic images of electronic circuits. placed into steppers or scanners, these reticles are used to transfer circuit patterns onto wafers to fabricate ics. the extension of optical lithography below the 130nm node has resulted in the mask error enhancement factor ( meef ), where reticle defects once too small to print on the wafer become enhanced in the lithography process to create yield-killing wafer defects. 4 table of contents in 2003, we introduced terascan , a high-resolution inspection system for xret photomasks, providing a comprehensive mask inspection solution for sub-90nm ic production. terascan, along with the revolutionary star light system, offers high-sensitivity to detect classical defects (intrusions, extrusions and point defects) as small as 80nm, and cd defects as small as 50nm. terascan has the ability to inspect nearly any type of photomask used in ic production, regardless of reticle wavelength and resolution enhancement technology, for sub-90nm design rules. as ic manufacturing costs and complexities increase with each technology node, ensuring high-yield becomes paramount for today wafer fabs. the combination of 193nm lithography and 300mm wafer processing further exacerbates the progressive defects problem because the photomasks must endure longer periods of exposure at higher energy creating an ideal breeding ground for these contaminants. in addition to finding these elusive defects before they print, reticle inspection techniques must contend with a multitude of new xret types and the increased packing density of device features associated with 65nm designs. the industry highest resolution contamination mode inspection technology, star light -2 was delivered in 2005 on the terascan platform. by leveraging platform advances in resolution, along with a detailed understanding of today xret photomasks, star light -2 takes the industry-standard star light algorithms to the next level. the star light -2 algorithms have been especially optimized for the mask re-qualification use case in a wafer fab. star light -2 provides early warning on progressive mask defects as well as excellent sensitivity to traditional contamination and esd. this full-field contamination inspection can handle both single-die and multi-die masks and it covers high-density patterned areas as well as scribes and borders while improving productivity through effective defect categorization using reviewsmart and litho3 . transparent film and substrate inspection understanding the optical surface properties of modern materials has become a critical part of manufacturing in industries ranging from microelectronics to biomedicine. with the increasing complexity of manufacturing processes and products comes the need for extremely precise analysis and control of surface properties such as film thickness uniformity, contamination and defectivity, often in real time and online. this trend is paving the way for nondestructive optical metrology techniques to move into volume production environments. through our acquisition of candela instruments during fiscal year 2005, we added the candela series of optical surface analyzers ( osa ) to our inspection portfolio. these systems automatically detect and classify surface defects on optoelectronic and semiconductor wafers, including transparent wafers such as sapphire and glass. by simultaneously measuring reflectivity and topographic variations on the surface, these systems enable detection of particles, stains, scratches, pits and bumps. epi layers and film coatings can also be inspected for uniformity, particles, and surface defects. process window qualification reticles used in the manufacture of today advanced ics incorporate complex resolution enhancement techniques (rets) that enable lithographers to extend existing lithographic processes to print features smaller than the wavelength of light used a process called sub-wavelength lithography. these enhancements include opc and psm technology, which together reduce the size and fine-tune the shape of features on the wafer. during the photolithography patterning process, marginal ret designs can print as out-of-focus features-or not print at all, creating open circuits that translate to electrical failures within the device. however, since these errors represent design marginalities rather than physical defects on the reticle, they cannot be caught using traditional reticle inspection. our process window qualification ( pwq ) solution enables device manufacturers to identify reticle design marginalities by examining the wafer for poorly printed features using their kla-tencor 23xx or 2800 broadband brightfield wafer inspection systems. pwq enables lithographers to compare die resulting from marginal lithography parameters with die printed under optimized conditions, to identify and prioritize 5 table of contents problematic regions as a function of process parameters. this method enables lithographers to understand the consequences of operating near the boundaries of the process window allowing more informed decisions about whether to redesign the reticle or fine-tune inline defect and cd monitoring efforts to minimize the impact of the design error on device yield. metrology metrology is a critical component of detecting, understanding and correcting yield problems. whether it is verifying that the design will be manufacturable, fully characterizing a new process, or monitoring high-volume manufacturing, our metrology and process window optimization products provide the full range of the critical measurements needed by fabs to manage their manufacturing process. with our unique combination of overlay, critical dimension, and film metrology measurements, ic manufacturers have the capabilities to maintain tight control of their lithography, etch, deposition and cmp processes. this enables them to ramp processes faster and detect process excursions earlier, preventing further material from being processed. optical overlay metrology decreasing linewidths, larger die sizes and increasing chip density all affect the tolerances for layer-to-layer alignment, or overlay, and can result in overlay misregistration errors a crucial cause of yield loss. today lithography scanners or steppers require in-line monitoring to insure layer to layer alignment is within spec. these advanced lithography systems also require regular maintenance and performance tests to insure they are meeting the process requirements. metrology systems are needed to verify scanner or stepper performance after periodic maintenance and to measure alignment between different layers of the semiconductor devices in production to ensure overlay errors are kept within specification. in fiscal year 2005, we introduced archer aim+ , our latest overlay metrology solution, which is designed to address chipmakers lithography overlay control needs beyond the 65nm node. archer aim+ incorporates a new optic system design and improved illumination system to reduce total measurement uncertainty ( tmu ), a key metric of overlay metrology performance and exceed the 45nm node overlay control requirements outlined in the 2005 edition of the international technology roadmap for semiconductors. in 2006, we introduced the k-t analyzer lithography correctibles platform to accelerate and improve advanced lithography cell qualification and control. seamlessly integrated with kla-tencor archer overlay metrology platform for 65nm and below ic production, k-t analyzer provides automated, on-tool analysis of overlay and cd metrology data in real time, giving engineers immediate feedback on the quality of their lithography process. this enables them to correct errors quickly, reduce unnecessary wafer rework, and make efficient use of lithography equipment, thereby ensuring that optimal productivity and tight process control are maintained in the lithography cell. k-t analyzer is now being used to enhance focus/dose analysis applications at several leading logic and memory manufacturers worldwide. cd metrology traditional cd linewidth measurements no longer provide all the information that chipmakers need to accurately predict yield and transistor performance. complete feature profile information is needed, including cd, sidewall angle, height and depth. contact hole profile measurements are also critical, since contact hole sizes that are significantly reduced or closed at the bottom of the structure can result in significant yield loss. in february 2006, we introduced the spectracd-xt our fourth-generation of inline optical cd metrology systems for advanced patterning process control at the 90nm and 65nm nodes. spectracd-xt is a non-destructive dedicated cd and profile metrology system built on our high-throughput, production-proven archer platform. the tool is the only high performance spectroscopic ellipsometry (se)-based 6 table of contents system with sub-2-second move-acquire-measure ( mam ) time. this performance allows chipmakers to detect even the smallest profile excursions and increase sampling or reduce turn-around-time for critical cd or profile measurements. cd control in the fab is increasingly changing over to optical cd from traditional cd-sem metrology tools. we have ceased further development of the cd-sem metrology tools. spectracd-xt further enables this transition with its throughput of greater than 100 wafers per hour, making it the lowest cost of ownership cd tool on the market. film measurement our film measurement products measure a variety of optical and electrical properties of thin films. these products are used to control a wide range of wafer fabrication steps, where both within-wafer and wafer-to-wafer process uniformity are of paramount importance to semiconductor manufacturers enabling them to achieve high device performance characteristics at low cost. in 2004, we introduced spectrafx 200 , our most advanced, seventh-generation thin-film metrology system, to enable ic manufacturers to achieve cost-effective production control over their advanced film processes at the 65nm node and below. based on our patented se technology, spectrafx 200 utilizes a unique dielectric pattern metrology ( dpm ) capability to provide accurate and robust measurements of in-die process variation on product wafers non-destructively. contamination monitoring gate dielectric quality is critical to the speed and reliability of an ic. below the 90nm node, dielectrics become so thin (less than 20 angstroms, or 2nm) that electrical performance characteristics of the dielectric films become just as critical as physical characteristics in determining overall transistor performance. our quantox product line provides non-contact, inline electrical performance measurements of key parameters that determine the quality of advanced gate dielectric films, including contamination and oxide thickness, as well as electrical capacitance and leakage. our latest quantox xp system provides information on both the physical and electrical properties of advanced gate dielectric materials, as well as high correlation to device electrical test data, enabling chipmakers to predict transistor performance inline, rather than having to wait until end-of-line electrical test a process that normally can take days or weeks to complete. surface metrology our stylus profilers measure the surface topography of films and etched surfaces, and are used in basic research and development as well as semiconductor production and quality control. the latest generation of our hrp &reg; high resolution profilers, the hrp-340, combines the dishing and erosion measurement capabilities of our long-scan profilers with high-aspect-ratio etched feature measurement capability, which has historically been limited to atomic force microscopes ( afm ). this allows customers to monitor their critical etch processes, such as shallow trench isolation ( sti ) and dual-damascene via/trench. the p-16 advanced surface profiler is a benchtop contact stylus profiler designed for automated step height, surface contour, and roughness measurements, and provides detailed 2d and 3d analysis of topography for a variety of surfaces and materials. in addition, we also provide stress measurement systems and capabilities, such as our new wafer bow and wafer stress option for our aset-f5x and spectrafx 100 thin-film metrology tools, which detects reliability-related problems such as film cracking, voiding and lifting. services kla-tencor service enables customers to maximize the performance and productivity of their assets over the entire tool life cycle. we deliver yield management expertise spanning all technology nodes, and collaborate with customers to determine the best products and services to meet technology requirements and optimize cost of ownership. we help customers meet their production goals by maximizing tool uptime and performance with a 7 table of contents menu of support services, unique expertise from local service engineers, worldwide spares and consumables depots, and round-the-clock tech support experts in our online support centers accessed through our isupport secure network. kla-tencor technology engagement services (tes) collaborates with customers to use effective recipes to improve baseline performance and avoid costly process errors, as well as extend the life of their installed base and more effectively determine when new tools and upgrades are necessary. software and other our productivity and analysis solutions translate raw inspection and metrology data into patterns that reveal process problems and help semiconductor manufacturers develop long-term yield improvement strategies. leveraging our core competencies, kla-tencor is also adding value to emerging markets and new high-growth areas. outside the semiconductor industry, we manufacture, sell and service yield management solutions to the data storage market, with offerings for hard disk drive and component makers. yield management &amp; analysis solutions klarity defect &reg; is our automated inline defect analysis module and defect data management system designed to help fabs achieve faster yield learning cycles. by identifying excursions in real time, klarity defect enables fabs to embed expert decision-making processes within analysis recipes. these processes are automatically triggered when user-specified events occur. in addition to freeing fab engineers from repetitive analysis tasks, this capability dramatically improves fab operating efficiency by providing relevant information in less time and with less effort for faster identification of yield problems. our klarity ace yield analysis solution enables fast integration, correlation and analysis of yield- and process-related data to accurately determine the source of defects and process excursions. it can differentiate between random and systematic yield problems, providing users with the data they need in order to take appropriate corrective measures. in fiscal year 2005, we introduced klarity ssa (spatial signature analysis), a new capability that provides automated classification and root cause analysis of spatial signatures, which are defect clusters and patterns that can be indicative of an out-of-spec process or process tool problem. klarity ssa can be utilized for a variety of applications where enhanced excursion detection is needed, including process line and tool monitoring, as well as engineering analysis, across key process modules. our prodata lithography data analysis tool, along with our prolith lithography and etch optimization tool, helps manufacturers reduce their advanced lithography development time and cost, as well as optimize their design-for-manufacturing ( dfm ) efforts. our impact xp automated defect classification ( adc ) solution provides consistent and accurate classification of yield-limiting defects to help our customers accelerate their ramp to higher process yields. impact xp incorporates our smartgallery tool, which reduces the setup time associated with adc implementation in fabs. this is a critical requirement, particularly for foundries and application specific integrated circuit ( asic ) manufacturers, who specialize in short runs of multiple products. our real time classification ( rtc ) and iadc technologies, which provide classification and binning of defect types in real time during inspection, are critical features on all of our latest-generation e-beam and optical inspection tools. computational lithography ic physical designs (layouts) are modified with reticle enhancement techniques ( ret ) and optical proximity correction ( opc ) to improve the patterning of features from photomask to wafers during lithography. the physical design may include features that are not compatable with today sub-wavelength lithography. also, the ret/opc models used to apply the modifications may be constrained by the layout. lastly, the manufacturing process variability of focus and exposure during lithography may also cause 8 table of contents errors in feature sizing. such systematc errors can create either open circuits that translate to electrical failures, or speed and power performance issues within the device. our designscan computational lithography solution enables device manufacturers to comprehensively identify marginal features in the post-opc mask design data by performing a physics-based simulation of the lithography process (and its variability) followed by an inspection of the results by comparing back to the original layout of the design. the simulation and inspection is performed on our high speed image computing platform which allows for very fast full chip inspections. this enables lithography aware optimization of the final opc design for the lithography process and its variabilities with the final result of improving yield, and reducing mask manufacturing re-spins for faster time to market. data storage industry in the front-end of thin film head wafer manufacturing, we provide the same process control equipment with which we serve the semiconductor industry, with particular strength in photolithography control. in the back-end of head manufacturing, we are the leading provider of a range of test equipment, including fly-height and head resonance testers such as the d6, high-resolution surface profilers, and the mrw3 quasi-static tester. in substrate and media manufacturing, we are the leading provider of metrology and defect inspection solutions with our candela 6120 system with optical surface analysis technology. additionally, we are leveraging our expertise in magnetics to meet customers challenges in the emerging magnetic random access memory ( mram ) market. customers to support our growing, global customer base, we maintain a significant presence throughout the united states, europe, asia-pacific and japan, staffed with local sales and applications engineers, customer and field service engineers and yield management consultants. we count among our largest customers leading semiconductor manufacturers from each of these regions. in fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for ics and products utilizing ics. we do not consider our business to be seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical with respect to the capital equipment procurement practices of semiconductor manufacturers and it is impacted by the investment patterns of such manufacturers in different global markets. downturns in the semiconductor industry or slowdowns in the worldwide economy could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results. sales, service and marketing our sales, service and marketing efforts are focused on building long-term relationships with our customers. we focus on providing a single and comprehensive resource for the full breadth of process control and yield management products and services. customers benefit from the simplified planning and coordination, as well as the increased equipment compatibility found when dealing with a single supplier. our revenues are derived primarily from product sales, mostly through our direct sales force. we believe that the size and location of our field sales, service and applications engineering, and marketing organizations represent a competitive advantage in our served markets. we have direct sales forces in the united states, europe, asia-pacific and japan. we maintain an export compliance program that is designed to fully meet the requirements of the united states departments of commerce and state. as of june 30, 2006, we employed over 2,300 sales and related personnel, service engineers and applications engineers. in addition to sales and service offices in the united states, we conduct sales, marketing and services out of wholly-owned subsidiaries or branches of united states subsidiaries in other countries, 9 table of contents including china, france, germany, india, israel, italy, japan, south korea, malaysia, singapore, taiwan, thailand and the united kingdom. international revenues accounted for approximately 80%, 76%, and 77% of our total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. additional information regarding our revenues from foreign operations for our last three fiscal years can be found in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements found under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. we believe that sales outside the united states will continue to be a significant percentage of our total revenues. our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to compete successfully in asia, one of the largest markets for the sale of yield management services in process monitoring equipment. our ability to compete in this area is dependent upon the continuation of favorable trading relationships between countries in the region (especially taiwan, china, japan and south korea) and the united states, and our continuing ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with leading semiconductor companies in the region. international sales and operations may be adversely affected by imposition of governmental controls, restrictions on export technology, political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and the difficulties associated with staffing and managing international operations. in addition, international sales may be adversely affected by the economic conditions in each country. the revenues from our international business may also be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. although we attempt to manage the currency risk inherent in non-dollar sales through hedging activities there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results. backlog our backlog for system shipments and associated warranty totaled $999 million and $646 million at june 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we include in our backlog only those customer orders for which we have accepted purchase orders and assigned shipment dates within twelve months from the date of order. orders for service and unreleased products are excluded from the backlog. we expect to fill the present backlog of orders during fiscal year 2007; however, all orders are subject to cancellation or delay by the customer. due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. research and development the market for yield management and process monitoring systems is characterized by rapid technological development and product innovation. these technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. we believe that continued and timely development of new products and enhancements to existing products are necessary to maintain our competitive position. accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our human and financial resources to research and development programs and seek to maintain close relationships with customers to remain responsive to their needs. as part of our customer relationships, we may enter into certain strategic development and engineering programs whereby our customers offset certain of our research and development costs. as of june 30, 2006, we employed approximately 1,200 research and development personnel. our key research and development activities during fiscal year 2006 involved development of process control and yield management equipment, especially reticle inspection and advanced wafer inspection for smaller feature sizes, copper-based devices and 300-mm wafers. for information regarding our research and development expenses during the last three fiscal years, including costs offset by our strategic development and engineering programs, see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k. 10 table of contents in order to make continuing developments in the semiconductor industry, we are committed to significant engineering efforts toward both product improvement and new product development. new product introductions may contribute to fluctuations in operating results, since customers may defer ordering existing products. if new products have reliability or quality problems, those problems may result in reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and manufacture new products, or that new products introduced by us will be accepted in the marketplace. if we do not successfully introduce new products, our results of operations will be adversely affected. manufacturing, raw materials and supplies we perform system design, assembly and testing in-house and utilize an outsourcing strategy for the manufacture of components and major subassemblies. our in-house manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling and testing components and subassemblies that are acquired through third-party vendors and integrating those subassemblies into our finished products. our principal manufacturing activities take place in san jose and milpitas, california, with additional operations in san diego and hayward, california, migdal ha emek, israel and northtech, singapore. as of june 30, 2006, we employed approximately 1,000 manufacturing personnel. many of the parts, components and subassemblies (collectively parts ) are standard commercial products, although certain parts are made to our specifications. we use numerous vendors to supply parts for the manufacture and support of our products. although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that these parts are available from multiple suppliers, this is not always possible and certain parts included in our systems may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. we endeavor to minimize the risk of production interruption by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, by monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers, and by ensuring adequate inventories of key parts are available to maintain manufacturing schedules. although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole and limited source suppliers, in some cases the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could disrupt scheduled deliveries to customers, damage customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. competition the worldwide market for process control and yield management systems is highly competitive. in each of our product markets, we face competition from established and potential competitors, some of which may have greater financial, research, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have, such as applied materials, inc. and hitachi electronics engineering co., ltd. we may also face future competition from new market entrants from other overseas and domestic sources. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and processes and to introduce new products and processes with improved price and performance characteristics. we believe that to remain competitive, we will require significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process research and development. significant competitive factors in the market for process control and yield management systems include system performance, ease of use, reliability, installed base and technical service and support. we believe that, while price and delivery are important competitive factors, the customers overriding requirement is for systems that easily and effectively incorporate automated and highly accurate inspection and metrology capabilities into their existing manufacturing processes to enhance productivity. management believes that we are well positioned in the market with respect to both our products and services. however, any loss of competitive position could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, 11 table of contents revenues, gross margins, and market share, any of which would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. acquisitions we continuously evaluate strategic acquisitions and alliances to expand our technologies, product offerings and distribution capabilities. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with integration of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, possible write-downs of impaired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. the inability to manage these risks effectively could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. additional information regarding business combinations during fiscal year 2006 can be found in note 6 and note 16 of the consolidated financial statements found under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k. we acquired all of the shares of ade corporation, a supplier of semiconductor process control solutions on october 11, 2006 for a total cash amount of $482 million. patents and other proprietary rights we protect our proprietary technology through reliance on a variety of intellectual property laws, including patent, copyright and trade secret. we have filed and obtained a number of patents in the united states and abroad and intend to continue pursuing the legal protection of our technology through intellectual property laws. in addition, from time to time we acquire license rights under united states and foreign patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. although we consider patents and other intellectual property significant to our business, due to the rapid pace of innovation within the process control and yield management systems industry, we believe that our protection through patent and other intellectual property rights is less important than factors such as our technological expertise, continuing development of new systems, market penetration, installed base and the ability to provide comprehensive support and service to customers worldwide. no assurance can be given that patents will be issued on any of our applications, that license assignments will be made as anticipated, or that our patents, licenses or other proprietary rights will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. no assurance can be given that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us with a competitive advantage. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology or that competitors will not be able to independently develop similar or functionally competitive technology. employees as of june 30, 2006, we employed approximately 5,900 people. none of our employees are represented by a labor union. we have not experienced work stoppages and believe that our employee relations are good. competition is intense in the recruiting of personnel in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industry. we believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our continued ability to hire and retain qualified management, marketing and technical employees. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors our operating results and stock price have varied widely in the past, and our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based upon numerous factors, including those listed in this section and throughout this annual report on form 10-k. our stock price will continue to be subject to daily variations as well. in addition, our future operating results and stock price may not follow any past trends. we believe the factors that could make our results fluctuate and difficult to predict include: our ability to successfully address and resolve all issues arising from the discovery that we had retroactively priced stock options (primarily from july 1, 1997 to june 30, 2002) and had not accounted for them correctly; the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; global economic uncertainty; competitive pressure; our ability to develop and implement new technologies and introduce new products; our ability to maintain supply of key components; our ability to manage our manufacturing requirements; our reliance on services provided by third parties; our customers acceptance and adoption of our new products and technologies; our ability to protect our intellectual property; our ability to attract, retain, and replace key employees; our ability to manage risks associated with acquisitions; litigation regarding ip and other business matters; worldwide political instability; earthquake and other uninsured risks; our ability to comply with recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations; future changes in accounting and tax standards or practices; changing regulatory environment; our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and our ability to successfully modify new systems and guard against computer viruses. operating results also could be affected by sudden changes in customer requirements and other economic conditions affecting customer demand and the cost of operations in one or more of the global markets in which we do business. as a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenue, gross profit and income from operations. our failure to meet the performance expectations set and published by external sources could result in a sudden and significant drop in the price of our stock, particularly on a short-term basis, and could negatively affect the value of any investment in our stock. the discovery that we had retroactively priced stock options (primarily from july 1, 1997 to june 30, 2002) and had not accounted for them correctly has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial results. we cannot predict the outcome of the pending government inquiries or shareholder lawsuits, and we may face additional government actions, shareholder lawsuits and other legal proceedings related to our historical 13 table of contents stock option practices and the remedial actions we have taken. all of these events have required us, and will continue to require us, to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses. this could divert attention and resources from the operation of our business and adversely affects our financial condition and results of operations. the special committee investigation of our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements has been time consuming and expensive, and has had a material adverse effect on us. the special committee investigation and restatement activities have required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses. the resulting restatements have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have recorded additional pre-tax, non-cash, stock-based compensation expense of (a) $348 million for the periods from july 1, 1994 to june 30, 2005 under apb opinion no. 25 and (b) $22 million for the year ended june 30, 2006 under sfas no. 123(r). we expect to amortize an additional $6 million of such expenses in future periods. in addition, we have established a special litigation committee to oversee the litigation matters that arose out of the investigation and the restatements and we cannot predict what additional actions may be required by these committees. the period of time necessary to resolve these follow-up matters is uncertain, and these matters could require significant additional attention and resources. the ongoing government inquiries relating to our historical stock option practices are time consuming and expensive and could result in injunctions, fines and penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the inquiries by the united states attorney office for the northern district of california ( usao ) and the united states securities and exchange commission ( sec ) into our historical stock option practices are ongoing. we have fully cooperated with the usao and the sec and intend to continue to do so. the period of time necessary to resolve these inquiries is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations or other actions related to our historical stock option practices. these inquiries will likely require us to continue to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, and could result in civil and criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against the company and the payment of significant fines and penalties by the company, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we have not been in compliance with sec reporting requirements and nasdaq listing requirements and may continue to face compliance issues with both. if we are unable to remain in compliance with sec reporting requirements and nasdaq listing requirements, there may be a material adverse effect on the company and our stockholders. due to the special committee investigation and resulting restatements, we could not file our periodic reports with the sec on time and faced the possibility of delisting of our stock from the nasdaq global select market. with the filing of this report and our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2006, we believe we have returned to full compliance with sec reporting requirements and nasdaq listing requirements and, therefore, that the nasdaq delisting matter is now closed. however, if the sec has comments on these reports (or other reports that we previously filed) that require us to file amended reports, or if the nasdaq listing qualifications panel does not concur that we are in compliance with applicable listing requirements, we may be unable to maintain an effective listing of our stock on a national securities exchange. if this happens, the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock could be adversely affected. in addition, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our stock under federal securities laws, and we would not be able to issue stock options or other equity awards to our employees or allow them to exercise their outstanding options, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 14 table of contents we have been named as a party to a number of shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits relating to our historical stock option practices, and we may be named in additional lawsuits in the future. this litigation could become time consuming and expensive and could result in the payment of significant judgments and settlements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements, a number of derivative actions were filed against certain of our current and former directors and officers purporting to assert claims on the company behalf. in addition, a number of securities class action complaints were filed against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers seeking damages related to our historical stock option practices and the resulting investigation, inquiries and restatements. there may be additional lawsuits of this nature filed in the future. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve these lawsuits. if these lawsuits become time consuming and expensive, or if there are unfavorable outcomes in any of these cases, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance coverage will not cover our total liabilities and expenses in these lawsuits, in part because we have a significant deductible on certain aspects of the coverage. in addition, subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related government inquiries and litigation. we currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. we are subject to the risks of additional lawsuits in connection with our historical stock option practices, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. in addition to the possibilities that there may be additional governmental actions and shareholder lawsuits against us, we may be sued or taken to arbitration by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters. these lawsuits may be time consuming and expensive, and cause further distraction from the operation of our business. the adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our efforts to correct past material weaknesses in our internal controls may not have been sufficient, and we may discover additional material weaknesses in our internal controls. as a result of the special committee investigation and our management internal review of our historical stock option practices and related matters, we identified past material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures (see item 9a controls and procedures). a material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of them, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. we believe that we have remedied the past material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures, but there can be no assurance that our corrections were sufficient or fully effective, or that we will not discover additional material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures in the future. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec, affect our nasdaq listing, and adversely affect our stock price. the securities and exchange commission, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of 15 table of contents the company internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, if our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules and/or regulations differently from our interpretation, then they may decline to attest to management assessment or may issue a report that is qualified. this could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management attention from business operations. it may be difficult or costly to obtain director and officer insurance coverage as a result of our stock options problems. we expect that the issues arising from our previous retroactive pricing of stock options will make it more difficult to obtain director and officer insurance coverage in the future. if we are able to obtain this coverage, it could be significantly more costly than in the past, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and cash flow. as a result of this and related factors, our directors and officers could face increased risks of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficultly attracting and retaining qualified directors and officers, which could adversely affect our business. the semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. the purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. if we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. the timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. this cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. when cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. during a down cycle, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. in addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. we can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. our business is ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. a majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the united states, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. a protracted global economic slowdown may adversely affect our business and results of operations. a majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the united states, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. our international revenue and operations are affected by economic conditions specific to each country and region. because of our significant dependence on international revenue, a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we 16 table of contents do business could negatively affect our operating results. managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversity and organizational alignment. moreover, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, political instability or terrorism in regions where we have operations along with fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business and results of operations. although we attempt to manage near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we. we face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. these competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. in addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services, similar to what we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. loss of competitive position could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margins, and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. if we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. for example, in the current semiconductor industry, the size of semiconductor devices continues to shrink and the industry is currently transitioning to the use of new materials and innovative fab processes. while we expect these trends will increase our customers reliance on our diagnostic products, we cannot ensure that they will directly improve our business. these and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs and to cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop and introduce new products which successfully address changing customer needs, to win market acceptance of these new products and to manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. in this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality. substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. there can be no assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements. in addition, we cannot ensure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. 17 table of contents our business would be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. we use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. because of the variability and uniqueness of customers orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. we seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. disruption of our manufacturing facilities due to earthquake, flood, other natural catastrophic events or terrorism could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. most of our manufacturing facilities are located in the united states, with small operations located in israel and singapore. operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. we cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. we outsource a number of services to third-party service providers which decreases our control over the performance of these functions; disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations. we outsource a number of services including our transportation and logistics management of spare parts to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. while outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. it is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, or our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions. disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers due to events such as regional economic, business, environmental, political, or informational technology system failures or military actions could adversely impact our operations and our ability to ship products, manage our product inventory or record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. if we are unable to maintain our lead or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets and market share. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. we own various united states and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. the process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our technology that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. we also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. however, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. while patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality 18 table of contents and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. we also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. however, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. in addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. we might be involved in intellectual property disputes or other intellectual property infringement claims that may be costly to resolve, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. as is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. litigation tends to be expensive and requires significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. our customary practice is to evaluate such infringement assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. however, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. the inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms, or instigation of litigation or other administrative proceedings could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and if we are unable to attract, retain, and motivate our key employees, our sales and product development could be harmed. our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. we generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. the expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. if we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. we have made and we expect to continue to make acquisitions that could cause diversion of company resources and our operating results could be harmed. in addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we also seek to acquire new technologies from external sources. as part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with the integration of the operations and personnel, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the possible write-downs of impaired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. the inability to manage these risks effectively could seriously harm our business. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. if international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operation could be harmed. the threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business, including the united states, increases the uncertainty in our markets. any act of terrorism which affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. increased international political instability, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks, and the continuing instability in the middle east, may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. this 19 table of contents same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. if this international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. we self insure certain risks including earthquake risk. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. we purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain other risks are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant costs and cannot be mitigated with insurance. an earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, most of which are conducted in california. it could also significantly delay our research and engineering effort on new products, most of which is also conducted in california. we take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. we self insure earthquake risks because we believe this is the prudent financial decision based on our large cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. certain other risks are also self insured either based on a similar cost benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. a change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, the adoption of statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 123(r), which required us to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method beginning in fiscal year 2006 and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, as reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. we are exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environments where we perform our operation and conduct our business. we are subject to various risks related to new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with which we must comply including environmental and safety regulations. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. we have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the japanese yen. we have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. we routinely hedge these exposures in an effort to minimize the impact of currency rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency rate fluctuations. to the extent that these hedges are inadequate, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. our investment portfolio consists of both corporate and government securities that have a maximum maturity of 10 years. the longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in 20 table of contents market interest rates and bond yields. as yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. all unrealized losses are due to changes in interest rates and bond yields. we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. we rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operation, our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operation. our global operations are linked by information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. despite our implementation of network security measures, our tools and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and tools located at customer sites. any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that acquisitions we complete will be successful. in addition, we may use equity to finance future acquisitions, which would increase our number of shares outstanding and be dilutive to current shareholders. if we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results may suffer. it is possible that the businesses we have acquired, such as ade corporation, which we acquired on october 11, 2006, as well as businesses that we may acquire in the future, may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected. if that happens, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results for a number of reasons, including: we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses; we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from our acquisitions; we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions. we may experience difficulties with our enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system and other it systems. system failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions, and this could adversely affect our financial results . system failure or malfunctioning could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows. any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our erp system or other systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. if we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our erp system or other systems, our business could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at june 30, 2006. actual results may differ materially. as of june 30, 2006, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.2 billion, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements found under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k). these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2006, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by $7 million. as of june 30, 2006, we had net forward contracts to sell $284 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (detail of these contracts and hedging activities is included in note 13 to consolidated financial statements under derivative instruments ). if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2006, the u.s. dollar equivalent would be $288 million. a 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $39 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure should have no material impact on income or cash flows. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors our operating results and stock price have varied widely in the past, and our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based upon numerous factors, including those listed in this section and throughout this annual report on form 10-k. our stock price will continue to be subject to daily variations as well. in addition, our future operating results and stock price may not follow any past trends. we believe the factors that could make our results fluctuate and difficult to predict include: the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry; global economic uncertainty; competitive pressures; our ability to develop and implement new technologies and introduce new products; our ability to maintain supply of key components; our ability to manage our manufacturing requirements; our reliance on services provided by third parties; our customers acceptance and adoption of our new products and technologies; our ability to protect our intellectual property; litigation regarding intellectual property and other business matters; our ability to attract, retain and replace key employees; our ability to manage risks associated with acquisitions and alliances; the amount of resources we are required to devote to compliance with securities laws and listing requirements; worldwide political instability; earthquake and other uninsured risks; future changes in accounting and tax standards or practices; changing legal and regulatory environment; our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to successfully modify new systems and guard against computer viruses; and our ability to continue to successfully address and resolve all issues arising from the discovery that we had retroactively priced stock options (primarily from july 1, 1997 to june 30, 2002) and had not accounted for them correctly. operating results also could be affected by sudden changes in customer requirements and other economic conditions affecting customer demand and the cost of operations in one or more of the global markets in which we do business. as a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenue, gross profit and income from operations. our failure to meet the performance expectations set and published by external sources could result in a sudden and significant drop in the price of our stock, particularly on a short-term basis, and could negatively affect the value of any investment in our stock. 13 table of contents risks associated with our industry and market conditions the semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. the purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. if we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. the timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. this cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. when cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. during a down cycle, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. in addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. we can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. our business is ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. a majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the united states, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. a protracted global economic slowdown may adversely affect our business and results of operations. a majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the united states, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. our international revenue and operations are affected by economic conditions specific to each country and region. because of our significant dependence on international revenue, a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we do business could negatively affect our operating results. managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversity and organizational alignment. moreover, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, political instability, legal or regulatory changes or terrorism in regions where we have operations along with fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business and results of operations. although we attempt to manage near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. we face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. these competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. in addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. loss of competitive position could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margins, and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. risks related to our business if we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. for example, the size of semiconductor devices continues to 14 table of contents shrink and the industry is currently transitioning to the use of new materials and innovative fab processes. while we expect these trends will increase our customers reliance on our diagnostic products, we cannot be sure that they will directly improve our business. these and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs and to cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop and introduce new products that successfully address changing customer needs, to win market acceptance of these new products and to manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. in this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality. substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. there can be no assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements. in addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. our business would be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. we use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. because of the variability and uniqueness of customers orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. we seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. our operating results and business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain parts to meet our production requirements, or if we are only able to do so on unfavorable terms. disruption of our manufacturing facilities due to earthquake, flood, other natural catastrophic events or terrorism could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. most of our manufacturing facilities are located in the united states, with small operations located in israel and singapore. operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. we cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. we outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations. we outsource a number of services, including our transportation and logistics management of spare parts, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. while outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. it is uncertain what effect such 15 table of contents diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, or our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions. disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers due to events such as regional economic, business, environmental or political events, information technology system failures or military actions could adversely impact our operations and our ability to ship products, manage our product inventory or record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. if we are unable to maintain our lead or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets and market share. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. we own various united states and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. the process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our business that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. we also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. however, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. while patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. we also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. however, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. in addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors. we might be involved in intellectual property disputes or other intellectual property infringement claims that may be costly to resolve, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. as is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. litigation tends to be expensive and requires significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. our customary practice is to evaluate such infringement assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. however, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. the inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms, or the instigation of litigation or other administrative proceedings, could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our key employees, our sales and product development could be harmed. our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. we generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. further, we do not 16 table of contents maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. the expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. if we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. in addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions and acquire new technologies from external sources. as part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that acquisitions we complete will be successful. in addition, we may use equity to finance future acquisitions, which would increase our number of shares outstanding and be dilutive to current shareholders. if we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results may suffer. it is possible that the businesses we have acquired, as well as businesses that we may acquire in the future, may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected. in addition, we may lose key employees of the acquired companies. as a result, risks associated with acquisition transactions may give rise to a material adverse effect on our business and financial results for a number of reasons, including: we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses; we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from our acquisitions; we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions. compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq requirements, is becoming increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management attention from business operations. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. if international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operation could be harmed. the threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business, including the united states, increases the uncertainty in our markets. any act of terrorism which affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. increased international political instability, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks, and the continuing instability in the middle east, may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such 17 table of contents transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. this same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. if this international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. we self insure certain risks including earthquake risk. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. we purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain other risks are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant cost and cannot be mitigated with insurance. an earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, most of which are conducted in california. it could also significantly delay our research and engineering effort on new products, most of which is also conducted in california. we take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. we self insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our large cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. certain other risks are also self insured either based on a similar cost benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. a change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, the adoption of statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 123(r), share-based payment which required us to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method beginning in fiscal year 2006 and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements, has had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, as reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. we are exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environments where we perform our operations and conduct our business. we are subject to various risks related to new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with which we must comply, including environmental and safety regulations. changes to existing laws, rules or regulations, including changes that result in inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules or regulations, in the countries in which we operate may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. we have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the japanese yen. we have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. we routinely hedge these exposures in an effort to minimize the impact of currency rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency rate fluctuations. to the extent that these hedges are inadequate, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. 18 table of contents we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. our investment portfolio consists of both corporate and government securities that have a maximum effective maturity of 10 years. the longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. as yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. unrealized losses are due to changes in interest rates and bond yields. we rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operation. our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operation. our global operations are linked by information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. despite our implementation of network security measures, our tools and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and tools located at customer sites. any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we may experience difficulties with our enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system and other it systems. system failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions, and this could adversely affect our financial results . system failure or malfunctioning could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our erp system or other systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. if we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our erp system or other systems, our business could be adversely affected. risks related to the restatement of our prior financial results our efforts to correct past material weaknesses in our internal controls may not have been sufficient, and we may discover additional material weaknesses in our internal controls. as previously disclosed, the company has undergone an investigation of the company historical stock option practices by the special committee of the company board of directors (for more information regarding the special committee investigation and its findings, please refer to item 3, legal proceedings ). as a result of that special committee investigation and our management internal review of our historical stock option practices and related matters, we identified past material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures (see item 9a, controls and procedures ). a material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of them, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. we believe that we have remedied the past material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures, but there can be no assurance that our corrections were sufficient or fully effective, or that we will not discover additional material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures in the future. the special committee investigation of our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatements have been time consuming and expensive, and have had a material adverse effect on us. the special committee investigation and the resulting restatement activities have required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. in addition, we have established a special litigation committee to oversee the litigation matters that have arisen out of the 19 table of contents investigation and the restatements, and we cannot predict what additional actions may be required by these committees. the period of time that will be necessary to resolve these matters is uncertain, and these matters could require significant additional attention and resources. the ongoing government inquiry relating to our historical stock option practices is time consuming and expensive and could result in injunctions, fines and penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. on july 25, 2007, we announced that the company had reached a settlement with the sec by consenting to the entry of a permanent injunction against future violations of the reporting, books and records, and internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws. the settlement resolves completely the sec investigation into the company historical stock option granting practices. kla-tencor was not charged by the sec with fraud, nor was the company required to pay any civil penalty, fine or money damages as part of the settlement. while the sec has completed its investigation, the inquiry by the united states attorney office for the northern district of california ( usao ) into our historical stock option practices is ongoing. we have fully cooperated with the usao and intend to continue to do so. the period of time necessary to resolve this inquiry is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations or other actions related to our historical stock option practices. this inquiry may require us to continue to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, and could result in criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against the company and the payment of significant fines and penalties by the company, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we have been named as a party to a number of shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits relating to our historical stock option practices, and we may be named in additional lawsuits in the future. this litigation could become time consuming and expensive and could result in the payment of significant judgments and settlements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements, a number of derivative actions were filed against certain of our current and former directors and officers purporting to assert claims on the company behalf. in addition, a number of securities class action complaints were filed against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers seeking damages related to our historical stock option practices and the resulting investigation, inquiries and restatements. there may be additional lawsuits of this nature filed in the future. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve these lawsuits. if these lawsuits become time consuming and expensive, or if there are unfavorable outcomes in any of these cases, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance coverage will not cover our total liabilities and expenses in these lawsuits, in part because we have a significant deductible on certain aspects of the coverage. in addition, subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related litigation and ongoing government inquiry. we currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. we are subject to the risks of additional government actions, shareholder lawsuits and other legal proceedings related to our historical stock option practices, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. it is possible that there may be additional governmental actions, shareholder lawsuits and other legal proceedings brought against us in connection with our historical stock option practices. in addition, we may be 20 table of contents sued or taken to arbitration by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters. these proceedings may require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, and may divert attention and resources from the operation of our business. these expenditures and diversions, as well as the adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec, affect our nasdaq listing, and adversely affect our stock price. the securities and exchange commission, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. the company has in prior periods identified certain material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. however, we believe the company remediated those past material weaknesses, and we have not identified any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2007. although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, if our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules and/or regulations differently from our interpretation, then they may decline to attest to management assessment or may issue a report that is qualified. this could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. it may be difficult or costly to obtain director and officer insurance coverage as a result of the issues arising out of our historical stock option practices. we expect that the issues arising from our previous retroactive pricing of stock options will make it more difficult to obtain director and officer insurance coverage in the future. if we are able to obtain this coverage, it could be significantly more costly than in the past, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and cash flow. as a result of this and related factors, our directors and officers could face increased risks of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and officers, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of june 30, 2007. actual results may differ materially. as of june 30, 2007, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $988.1 million, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in note 3, marketable securities to the consolidated financial statements found under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k). these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2007, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by $5.1 million. as of june 30, 2007, we had net forward contracts to sell $376.7 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (detail of these contracts and hedging activities is included in note 13, derivative instruments and hedging activities to the consolidated financial statements). if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2007, the u.s. dollar equivalent would have been $365.0 million. a 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $50.3 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on income or cash flows. 47 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors risks associated with our industry and market conditions the semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. the purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. if we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. the timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. this cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue, and in some cases, future expense levels. in the current environment, our ability to accurately predict our future operating results is particularly low. during down cycles in our industry, the financial results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in orders but also a weakening of their financial condition that could impair our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers. furthermore, in the current credit environment, it may be more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. if our customers experience persistent difficulties in raising capital for equipment financing, we could experience a decrease in orders for our products. when cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. during periods of declining revenues, such as in the current environment, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. if we fail to respond, then our business could be seriously harmed. in addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. we can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. each of these factors could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our business is ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. the vast majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the united states, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. a protracted global economic slowdown may adversely affect our business and results of operations. the vast majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the united states, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. our international revenue and operations are affected by economic conditions specific to each country and region. because of our significant dependence on international revenue, a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we do business could negatively affect our operating results. managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversity and organizational alignment. moreover, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, political instability, legal or regulatory changes or terrorism in regions where we have operations along with fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business and results of operations. although we attempt to manage near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. we face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. these competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. in addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor 12 equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. loss of competitive position could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margins, and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. risks related to our business if we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. for example, the size of semiconductor devices continues to shrink and the industry is currently transitioning to the use of new materials and innovative fab processes. while we expect these trends will increase our customers reliance on our diagnostic products, we cannot be sure that they will directly improve our business. these and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs and to cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop and introduce new products and services that successfully address changing customer needs, to win market acceptance of these new products and services and to manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. in this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features and functionality. substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. moreover, we supplement our research and development efforts with a significant focus on acquisitions and investments in third parties. there can be no assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development, acquisition or investment expenditures associated with such products or enhancements. in addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. our business would be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. we use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. because of the variability and uniqueness of customers orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. we seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. our operating results and business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain parts to meet our production requirements, or if we are only able to do so on unfavorable terms. disruption of our manufacturing facilities due to earthquake, flood, other natural catastrophic events or terrorism could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. most of our manufacturing facilities are located in the united states, with additional operations located in israel and singapore. operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors are subject to 13 disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. we cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. we outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations. we outsource a number of services, including our transportation and logistics management of spare parts, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. while outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. it is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, or our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions. disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers due to events such as regional economic, business, environmental or political events, information technology system failures or military actions could adversely impact our operations and our ability to ship products, manage our product inventory or record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. if we are unable to maintain our lead or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets and market share. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. we own various united states and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. the process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our business that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. we also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. however, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. while patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. we have also published internal policies that set forth how employees and contractors are to handle our proprietary information. we also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. however, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements and policies, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. in addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors. we might be involved in intellectual property disputes or other intellectual property infringement claims that may be costly to resolve, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. as is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual 14 property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. litigation tends to be expensive and requires significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. our customary practice is to evaluate such infringement assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. however, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. the inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms, or the instigation of litigation or other administrative proceedings, could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our key employees, our sales and product development could be harmed. our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. we generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. the expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. if we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. in addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions and acquire new technologies from external sources. as part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that acquisitions we complete will be successful. in addition, we may use equity to finance future acquisitions, which would increase our number of shares outstanding and be dilutive to current shareholders. if we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results may suffer. it is possible that the businesses we have acquired, as well as businesses that we may acquire in the future, may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected. in addition, we may lose key employees of the acquired companies. as a result, risks associated with acquisition transactions may give rise to a material adverse effect on our business and financial results for a number of reasons, including: we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses; the combination of businesses may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our company and/or the acquired business and the loss of key personnel; we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from our acquisitions; we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products; difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; the customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom the companies we acquire have business dealings may have a potentially adverse reaction to the acquisition; we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions. 15 compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq requirements, is becoming increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. these laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management attention from business operations. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. if international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operation could be harmed. the threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. any act of terrorism which affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. increased international political instability, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks, and the continuing instability in the middle east, may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. this same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. if this international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. we self insure certain risks including earthquake risk. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. we purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain other risks are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant cost and cannot be mitigated with insurance. an earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, most of which are conducted in california. it could also significantly delay our research and engineering effort on new products, most of which is also conducted in california. we take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. we self insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our large cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. certain other risks are also self insured either based on a similar cost benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. a change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, the adoption of statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 123(r), share-based payment which required us to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method beginning in fiscal year 2006 and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements, has had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, as reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. 16 a change in the effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business. a number of factors may harm our future effective tax rates such as the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions, changes in available tax credits, changes in share-based compensation expense, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. a change in the effective tax rate can adversely impact our results from operations. we are exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environments where we perform our operations and conduct our business. we are subject to various risks related to existing, new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with which we must comply, including environmental, safety, antitrust and export control regulations. failure to comply with existing laws, rules or regulations, or changes, some of which may result in inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules or regulations, in the countries in which we operate could result in violations of contractual or regulatory obligations that may adversely affect our reported financial results or our ability to conduct our business. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. we have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the japanese yen. we have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. we routinely hedge these exposures in an effort to minimize the impact of currency rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency rate fluctuations. to the extent that these hedges are inadequate, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. there are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. as of june 30, 2008, we had $750 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness represented by our senior notes that will mature in 2018, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. in certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of our senior notes, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase the senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. we cannot make any assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources at such time or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of the senior notes. our ability to repurchase the senior notes in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with the senior notes, by the terms of other agreements to which we may be party at such time. if we fail to repurchase the senior notes as required by the indenture, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the senior notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other of our obligations. 17 we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. our investment portfolio consists of both corporate and government securities that have a maximum effective maturity of 10 years. the longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. as yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. unrealized losses are due to changes in interest rates and bond yields. auction rate securities backed by student loans which are collateralized, insured and guaranteed by the united states federal department of education are also included in our investment portfolio. due to the current illiquidity in the auction rate security market, the funds associated with these failed auctions may not be accessible until the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. although we believe our auction rate securities continue to represent sound investments due to the aaa/aaa credit ratings of the underlying investments, we may be forced to sell some of our auction rate securities portfolio under illiquid market conditions, which could result in our recognizing a loss on such sales. we rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operation. our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operation. our global operations are linked by information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. despite our implementation of network security measures, our tools and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and tools located at customer sites. any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we may experience difficulties with our new customer relationship management ( crm ) system or existing enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system and other it systems. system failure or malfunctioning may result in a disruption of operations or the inability to process transactions, and this could adversely affect our financial results . we may experience difficulties with our new crm system implemented in fiscal year 2008 that could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows. system failure or malfunctioning could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our erp system or other systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation activities pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. if we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our erp system or other systems, our business could be adversely affected. risks related to the restatement of our prior financial results our efforts to correct past material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may not have been sufficient, and we may discover additional material weaknesses in our internal controls. as previously disclosed in prior filings by the company with the sec, including the company annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2007 which was filed with the sec on august 20, 2007 (the 2007 form 10-k ), the company has undergone an investigation of the company historical stock option practices by the special committee of the company board of directors (for more information regarding the 18 special committee investigation and its findings, please refer to item 3, legal proceedings of the 2007 form 10-k). as a result of that special committee investigation and our management internal review of our historical stock option practices and related matters, we identified past material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures (see item 9a, controls and procedures in the 2007 form 10-k). a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. we believe that we have remedied the past material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures, but there can be no assurance that our corrections were sufficient or fully effective, or that we will not discover additional material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures in the future. the special committee investigation of our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatements have been time consuming and expensive, and have had a material adverse effect on us. the special committee investigation and the resulting restatement activities have required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. in addition, we have established a special litigation committee to oversee the litigation matters that have arisen out of the investigation and the restatements, and we cannot predict what additional actions may be required by these committees. the period of time that will be necessary to resolve these matters is uncertain, and these matters could require significant additional attention and resources. the ongoing government inquiry relating to our historical stock option practices, as well as any other inquiries that may be started by other governmental or regulatory agencies, may be time consuming and expensive and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. on july 25, 2007, we announced that the company had reached a settlement with the sec by consenting to the entry of a permanent injunction against future violations of the reporting, books and records, and internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws. the settlement resolves completely the sec investigation into the company historical stock option granting practices. kla-tencor was not charged by the sec with fraud, nor was the company required to pay any civil penalty, fine or money damages as part of the settlement. in addition, the united states attorney office for the northern district of california ( usao ) informed us in july 2008 that it had closed its investigation into our historical stock option practices and was not bringing any charges against us. while the investigations by the sec and usao have been completed, the company is responding to inquiries from the u.s. department of labor, which is conducting an examination of the company 401(k) savings plan prompted by the company stock option issues. the company is cooperating fully with this examination and intends to continue to do so. this inquiry may require us to continue to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. also, there can be no assurance that other inquiries, investigations or actions will not be started by other united states federal or state regulatory agencies or by foreign governmental agencies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we have been named as a party to a number of shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits relating to our historical stock option practices, and we may be named in additional lawsuits in the future. this litigation could become time consuming and expensive and could result in the payment of significant judgments and settlements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements, a number of derivative actions were filed against certain of our current and former directors and officers purporting to assert claims on the company behalf. in addition, a number of securities class action complaints were filed against us and 19 certain of our current and former directors and officers seeking damages related to our historical stock option practices and the resulting investigation, inquiries and restatements. there may be additional lawsuits of this nature filed in the future. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, other than the shareholder class action for which we have entered into a settlement that is subject to court approval (as described in note 13, litigation and other legal matters to the consolidated financial statements), nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve these lawsuits. if these lawsuits become time consuming and expensive, or if there are unfavorable outcomes in any of these cases, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance coverage will not cover our total liabilities and expenses in these lawsuits, in part because we have a significant deductible on certain aspects of the coverage. in addition, subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related litigation and ongoing government inquiry. we currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. we are subject to the risks of additional government actions, shareholder lawsuits and other legal proceedings related to our historical stock option practices, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. it is possible that there may be additional governmental actions, shareholder lawsuits and other legal proceedings brought against us in connection with our historical stock option practices. in addition, we may be sued or taken to arbitration by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters. these proceedings may require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, and may divert attention and resources from the operation of our business. these expenditures and diversions, as well as the adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure to maintain effective internal controls may cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the sec, affect our nasdaq listing, and adversely affect our stock price. the securities and exchange commission, as directed by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on form 10-k that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm reports on the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. the company has in prior periods identified certain material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. however, we believe the company remediated those past material weaknesses, and we have not identified any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2008. although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the section 404 requirements, if our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules and/or regulations differently from our interpretation, then they may issue a report that is qualified. this could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of june 30, 2008. actual results may differ materially. as of june 30, 2008, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $451.3 million, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in note 3, marketable securities to the consolidated financial statements found under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k). these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2008, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by $1.4 million. as of june 30, 2008, we had net forward and option contracts to sell $317.0 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (detail of these contracts and hedging activities is included in note 14, derivative instruments and hedging activities to the consolidated financial statements). if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2008, the u.s. dollar equivalent would have been $359.7 million. a 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $44.8 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on income or cash flows. see note 3, marketable securities to the consolidated financial statements; item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, ; and item 1a, risk factors elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a description of recent market events that may affect the liquidity of certain municipal auction rate securities that we held at june 30, 2008. in april 2008, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.90% senior unsecured notes due in 2018. the fair market value of long-term fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. at june 30, 2008, the book value and the fair value of our fixed rate debt were $744.7 million and $728.9 million, respectively. 47risk factors 14 risk factors a description of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is provided below. risks associated with our industry and market conditions the semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. the purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. if we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. the timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. the cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate is largely a function of our customers capital spending patterns and need for expanded manufacturing capacity, which in turn are affected by factors such as capacity utilization, consumer demand for products, inventory levels and our customers access to capital. this cyclicality affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue, and in some cases, future expense levels. in the current environment, our ability to accurately predict our future operating results is particularly limited. during down cycles in our industry, the financial results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in, or cancellation or delay of, orders (which are generally subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty) but also a weakening of their financial condition that could impair their ability to pay for our products or our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers. when cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. during periods of declining revenues, as was experienced during fiscal year 2009, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. if we fail to respond, or if our attempts to respond (such as the global workforce reductions and cost-reduction efforts that we announced in november 2008 and march 2009) fail to accomplish our intended results, then our business could be seriously harmed. furthermore, any workforce reductions and cost-reduction actions that we adopt in response to down cycles may result in additional restructuring charges, disruptions in our operations and loss of key personnel. in addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. we can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. each of these factors could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. in addition, the semiconductor equipment industry and other industries that we serve are constantly developing and changing over time. these changes currently, or in the future may, include the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers investment decisions; the variability of future growth rates in the semiconductor and related industries; the ever-increasing cost and complexity involved in the adoption by our customers of technology advances and the potential impact that may have on their rate of adoption; pricing trends in the end-markets for consumer electronics and other products, which places a growing emphasis on our customers cost of ownership; overall changes in capital spending patterns by our customers; and demand by semiconductor manufacturers for shorter cycle times for developing, manufacturing and installing capital equipment. if we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from any of these or other potential changes in our industries, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. we are exposed to risks associated with the current weakened condition of the financial markets and the global economy. the recent severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets and weakening of the global economy have contributed to slowdowns in the industries in which we operate, which slowdowns are likely to worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. 14 table of contents the markets for semiconductors, and therefore our business, are ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. economic uncertainty frequently leads to reduced consumer and business spending, which, in the recent economic slowdown, has caused our customers to decrease, cancel or delay their equipment and service orders from us. in addition, the recent tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit have made it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. reduced demand, combined with delays in our customers ability to obtain financing (or the unavailability of such financing), has adversely affected our product and service sales and revenues and therefore has harmed our business and operating results, and our operating results and financial condition may be further adversely impacted if the current economic conditions persist. in addition, a further decline in the condition of the global financial markets could adversely impact the market values or liquidity of our investments. our investment portfolio includes corporate and government securities, auction rate securities, money market funds and other types of debt and equity investments. although we believe our portfolio continues to be comprised of sound investments due to the quality and (where applicable) credit ratings and government guarantees of the underlying investments, a further decline in the capital and financial markets would adversely impact the market values of our investments and their liquidity. if the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. if we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. we face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. these competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. in addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. loss of competitive position could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. we have recorded significant restructuring, inventory write-off and asset impairment charges in the past and may do so again in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business. during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009, we recorded material restructuring charges of $38.7 million related to our global workforce reduction, large excess inventory write-offs of $85.6 million, and material impairment charges of $446.7 million related to our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. if the current challenging economic conditions persist, we may implement additional cost-reduction actions, which would require us to take additional, potentially material, restructuring charges related to, among other things, employee terminations or exit costs. we may also be required to write off additional inventory if our product build plans or usage of service inventory experience further declines, and such additional write-offs could constitute material charges. as noted above, we recorded a material charge during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009 related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. goodwill represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. goodwill is not amortized, but is instead tested for 15 table of contents impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets . purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with sfas no. 144, accounting for impairment or disposal of long-lived assets . the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. a substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we used to calculate the amount of such impairment charge, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge. any such additional material charges, whether related to restructuring or goodwill or purchased intangible asset impairment, may have a material negative impact on our operating results and related financial statements. we are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. our customer base, particularly in the semiconductor industry, historically has been, and is becoming increasingly, highly concentrated. in this environment, orders from a relatively limited number of manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of our sales. in addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. if customers do not place orders, or they delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to replace the business. furthermore, because our products are configured to customer specifications, any changes, delays or cancellations of orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. major customers may also seek, and on occasion receive, pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to us. also, certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. in the current challenging economic environment, we are exposed to additional risks related to the continued financial viability of certain of our customers. for instance, during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009, we increased our allowance for doubtful accounts by $23.2 million from $12.3 million at june 30, 2008 for potential losses relating to a heightened risk of non-payment of accounts receivable by customers facing financial difficulty. to the extent our customers experience liquidity issues, we may be required to incur additional bad debt expense with respect to receivables owed to us by those customers. in addition, customers with liquidity issues may be forced to discontinue operations or may be acquired by one of our customers, and in either case such event would have the effect of further consolidating our customer base. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. a majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the united states, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. a protracted economic slowdown in any of the countries in which we do business may adversely affect our business and results of operations. a majority of our annual revenue is derived from outside the united states, and we expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our revenue. our international revenue and operations are affected by economic conditions specific to each country and region. because of our significant dependence on international revenue, a decline in the economies of any of the countries or regions in which we do business could negatively affect our operating results. managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversity and organizational alignment. moreover, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, tariffs or other trade barriers, political instability, legal or regulatory changes or terrorism in regions where we have operations or where we do business, along with fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. although we attempt to manage near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. 16 table of contents risks related to our business if we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. for example, the size of semiconductor devices continues to shrink and the industry is currently transitioning to the use of new materials and innovative fab processes. while we expect these trends will increase our customers reliance on diagnostic products such as ours, we cannot be sure that these trends will directly improve our business. these and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs and to cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop and introduce new products that successfully address changing customer needs, to win market acceptance of these new products and to manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. in this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance, features and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands. substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. there can be no assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements. in addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. our business would be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. we use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. because of the variability and uniqueness of customers orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. we seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. in addition, if certain of our key suppliers experience liquidity issues and are forced to discontinue operations, which is a heightened risk during the current economic downturn, that would affect their ability to deliver parts and could result in delays for our products. our operating results and business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain parts to meet our production requirements, or if we are only able to do so on unfavorable terms. disruption of our manufacturing facilities due to earthquake, flood, other natural catastrophic events or terrorism could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. we have significant manufacturing operations in the united states, with additional operations in israel, singapore, belgium, germany and china. operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. we cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. 17 table of contents as part of the cost-cutting actions that we have recently announced, we are currently in the process of consolidating several of our operating facilities. during fiscal year 2009 and in previous years, our operations in california have been distributed among several locations, including milpitas, san jose, fremont and santa clara. however, upon completion of our current consolidation efforts, our california operations will be primarily centralized in our milpitas facility. the consolidation of our california operations into a single campus could further concentrate the risks related to any of the disruptive events described in the preceding paragraph, such as acts of war or terrorism, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters, if any such event were to impact our milpitas facility. we outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations. we outsource a number of services, including our transportation and logistics management of spare parts, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. while outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. it is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, or our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions. disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers due to events such as regional economic, business, environmental or political events, information technology system failures or military actions could adversely impact our operations and our ability to ship products, manage our product inventory or record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. if we are unable to maintain our lead or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. we own various united states and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. the process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our business that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. in addition, we at times engage in collaborative technology development efforts with our customers and suppliers, and these collaborations may constitute a key component of certain of our ongoing technology and product research and development projects. the termination of any such collaboration, or delays caused by disputes or other unanticipated challenges that may arise in connection with any such collaboration, could significantly impair our research and development efforts, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. we also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. however, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. while patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. we also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. however, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. in addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors. 18 table of contents we might be involved in intellectual property disputes or other intellectual property infringement claims that may be costly to resolve, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. as is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. in addition, we occasionally receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to intellectual property claims made against such customers by third parties. litigation tends to be expensive and requires significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. our customary practice is to evaluate such infringement assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. however, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. the inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms, or the instigation of litigation or other administrative proceedings, could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our key employees, our sales and product development could be harmed. our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. we generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. the expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. if we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. we are also exposed to risks in connection with strategic alliances into which we may enter. in addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions and acquire new technologies from external sources. as part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that acquisitions we complete will be successful. in addition, we may use equity to finance future acquisitions, which would increase our number of shares outstanding and be dilutive to current shareholders. if we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results may suffer. it is possible that the businesses we have acquired, as well as businesses that we may acquire in the future, may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected. in addition, we may lose key employees of the acquired companies. as a result, risks associated with acquisition transactions may give rise to a material adverse effect on our business and financial results for a number of reasons, including: we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses; the combination of businesses may cause the loss of key personnel or an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our company and/or the acquired business; we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from our acquisitions; we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products; 19 table of contents we may face difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; the customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom the companies we acquire have business dealings may have a potentially adverse reaction to the acquisition; we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions. at times, we may also enter into strategic alliances with customers, suppliers or other business partners with respect to development of technology and intellectual property. these alliances typically require significant investments of capital and exchange of proprietary, highly sensitive information. the success of these alliances depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control and requires ongoing and effective cooperation with our strategic partners. mergers and acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq requirements, is becoming increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. these laws, rules and regulations have increased, and in the future are expected to continue to increase, the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management attention from business operations. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. if international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. the threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. any act of terrorism which affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks, may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. this same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. if international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. we self insure certain risks including earthquake risk. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. we purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain other risks are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. an earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, most of which are conducted in california, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. it could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts on new products, most of which are also conducted in california. we take steps to minimize the damage that would 20 table of contents be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. we self insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our large cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. certain other risks are also self-insured either based on a similar cost-benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. a change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices (or changes in interpretations of such standards, practices or rules) can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to (or revised interpretations of) existing tax or accounting rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, the adoption of sfas no. 123(r), share-based payment, which required us to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method beginning in fiscal year 2006 and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements, has had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, as reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. a change in our effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business. a number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, such as the recent proposal by president obama administration, if enacted); changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. a change in our effective tax rate can adversely impact our results from operations. we are exposed to various risks related to the legal and regulatory environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business. we are subject to various risks related to compliance with new, existing, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with which we must comply, including environmental, safety, antitrust and export control regulations. for example, we are subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with our global business operations, including regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of our products, recycling and disposal of materials used in our products or in producing our products, the operation of our facilities, and the use of our real property. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future laws, rules or regulations, or changes to existing laws, rules or regulations, including changes that result in inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules or regulations, in the countries in which we operate could result in violations of contractual or regulatory obligations that may adversely affect our reported financial results or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, we may from time to time be involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding employment, contracts, product performance, product liability, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, unfair competition and other matters (in addition to proceedings and claims related to intellectual property matters, which are separately discussed elsewhere in this item 1a). these legal proceedings and claims, regardless of 21 table of contents their merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, divert management attention and resources, and/or inhibit our ability to sell our products. there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims, which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and our ability to operate our business. we are also exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally. under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs. any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program. for example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded. we do not know the outcome of any future audits. any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and our ability to operate our business. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. we have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro and the japanese yen. we have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. we routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency exchange rate fluctuations. to the extent that these hedges are inadequate, or if there are significant currency exchange rate fluctuations in currencies for which we do not have hedges in place, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. furthermore, if a financial counter-party to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material financial losses. we are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring and banking arrangements. we enter into factoring arrangements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. in addition, we maintain bank accounts with several domestic and foreign financial institutions, any of which may prove not to be financially viable. if we were to stop entering into these factoring arrangements, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by delays or failures in collecting trade receivables. however, by entering into these arrangements, and by engaging these financial institutions for banking services, we are exposed to additional risks. if any of these financial institutions experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of our factoring or deposit arrangements, we may experience material financial losses due to the failure of such arrangements or a lack of access to our funds, any of which could have an adverse impact upon our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. there are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. as of june 30, 2009, we had $750 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness represented by our senior notes that will mature in 2018, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and the other risk factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. 22 table of contents in certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of our senior notes, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase the senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. we cannot make any assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources at such time or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of the senior notes. our ability to repurchase the senior notes in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with the senior notes, or by the terms of other agreements to which we may be party at such time. if we fail to repurchase the senior notes as required by the indenture, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the senior notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other of our obligations. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. in addition, we and our stockholders are exposed to risks related to the volatility of the market for our common stock. our investment portfolio consists of both corporate and government securities that have a maximum effective maturity of 10 years. the longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. as yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. unrealized losses are due to changes in interest rates and bond yields. auction rate securities backed by student loans which are collateralized, insured and guaranteed by the united states federal department of education are also included in our investment portfolio. due to the current illiquidity in the auction rate security market, the funds associated with these failed auctions may not be accessible until the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. although we believe our auction rate securities continue to represent sound investments due to the aaa/aaa credit ratings of the underlying investments, we may be forced to sell some of our auction rate securities portfolio under illiquid market conditions, which could result in our recognizing a loss on such sales. in august 2008, ubs ag entered into a settlement in principle with the sec and various state regulatory agencies to restore liquidity to all clients holding auction rate securities. per the settlement, ubs has agreed to offer certain clients the option to redeem all of their auction rate securities at par, no loss, from ubs between june 30, 2010 and june 30, 2012, and we formally accepted this offer and entered into a repurchase agreement with ubs on november 11, 2008. however, ubs has expressly disclaimed any assurance that it will have enough financial resources necessary to perform its obligations under the agreement. if we elect to retain our auction rate securities in reliance upon that offer, with the intent of participating in the offer, but ubs is unable to satisfy its obligations under the offer at the applicable time, we may be required to sell the auction rate securities at that time at a significant loss or hold the auction rate securities until they may be sold, which could have an adverse impact upon our operating results and financial condition. in addition, the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly during recent years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to various factors, including without limitation conditions in the semiconductor industry and other industries in which we operate, fluctuations in the global economy or capital markets, our operating results or other performance metrics, or adverse consequences experienced by us as a result of any of the risks described elsewhere in this item 1a. volatility in the market price of our common stock could cause an investor in our common stock to experience a loss on the value of their investment in us and could also adversely impact our ability to raise capital through the sale of our common stock or to use our common stock as consideration to acquire other companies. 23 table of contents we are exposed to risks related to our indemnification of third parties and the performance of our products. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and lessors, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. we may be compelled to enter into or accrue for probable settlements of alleged indemnification obligations or subject to potential liability arising from our customers involvements in legal disputes. in addition, notwithstanding the provisions related to limitations on our liability that we seek to include in our business agreements, the counter-parties to such agreements may dispute our interpretation or application of such provisions, and a court of law may not interpret or apply such provisions in our favor, any of which could result in an obligation for us to pay material damages to third parties and engage in costly legal proceedings. it is difficult to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligations, whether or not asserted, due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in any particular claim. our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes. we are also exposed to potential costs associated with unexpected product performance issues. our products and production processes are extremely complex and thus could contain unexpected product defects, especially when products are first introduced. unexpected product performance issues could result in significant costs being incurred by us, including increased service or warranty costs, providing product replacements for (or modifications to) defective products, litigation related to defective products, product recalls, or product write-offs or disposal costs. these costs could be substantial and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, our reputation with our customers could be damaged as a result of such product defects, which could reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our business. we rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operation. our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operations. our global operations are linked by information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. despite our implementation of network security measures, our tools and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and tools located at customer sites, or could be subject to system failures or malfunctions for other reasons. any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we may experience difficulties with our customer relationship management ( crm ) system, enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system or other it systems. system failure or malfunctioning may result in a disruption of operations or the inability to process transactions, and this could adversely affect our financial results . we may experience difficulties with our recently implemented crm system that could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows. system failure or malfunctioning could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our erp system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular operation of such systems or as a result of the integration of our acquired businesses into such systems) could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the 24 table of contents evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. if we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our crm system, erp system or other systems, our business could be adversely affected. risks related to the restatement of our prior financial results we have been named as a party to a number of shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits relating to our historical stock option practices, and we may be named in additional lawsuits in the future. this litigation has been and continues to be time consuming and expensive and could result in the payment of significant judgments and settlements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements, a number of derivative actions were filed against certain of our current and former directors and officers purporting to assert claims on the company behalf. in addition, a number of securities class action complaints were filed against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers seeking damages related to our historical stock option practices and the resulting investigation, inquiries and restatements. there may be additional lawsuits or other legal proceedings of this nature filed in the future (such as claims by former officers and employees in connection with their stock options, employment terminations and other matters). we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve these lawsuits. if these lawsuits become time consuming and expensive, or if there are unfavorable outcomes in any of these cases, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance coverage will not cover our total liabilities and expenses in these lawsuits, in part because we have a significant deductible on certain aspects of the coverage. in addition, subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related litigation and government actions. we currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. we are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement arrangement into which we have entered. in connection with the settlement of certain government actions and other legal proceedings related to our historical stock option practices, we have explicitly agreed as a condition to such settlements that we will comply with certain laws, such as the books and records provisions of the federal securities laws. if we were to violate any such law, we might not only be subject to the significant penalties applicable to such violation, but our past settlements may also be impacted by such violation, which could give rise to additional government actions or other legal proceedings. any such additional actions or proceedings may require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, and may divert attention and resources from the operation of our business. these expenditures and diversions, as well as an adverse resolution of any such action or proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the special committee investigation of our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatements have been time consuming and expensive, and have had a material adverse effect on us. the special committee investigation and the resulting restatement activities have required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. the period of time that will be necessary to resolve these matters is uncertain, and these matters could require significant additional attention and resources. 25 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of june 30, 2009. actual results may differ materially. as of june 30, 2009, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $804.9 million, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents. these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2009, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by $2.0 million. see note 4, marketable securities to the consolidated financial statements; item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources ; and item 1a, risk factors elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for a description of recent market events that may affect the liquidity of certain municipal auction rate securities that we held at june 30, 2009. as of june 30, 2009, we had net forward and option contracts to sell $69.1 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (detail of these contracts and hedging activities is included in note 16, derivative instruments and hedging activities to the consolidated financial statements). if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2009, the u.s. dollar equivalent would have been $69.7 million. a 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $17.5 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on our income or cash flows. in april 2008, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.90% senior unsecured notes due in 2018. the fair market value of long-term fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. at june 30, 2009, the book value and the fair value of our fixed rate debt were $745.2 million and $702.0 million, respectively. at june 30, 2008, the book value and the fair value of our fixed rate debt were $744.7 million and $728.9 million, respectively. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors a description of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is provided below. risks associated with our industry and market conditions the semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. the purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. if we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. the timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. the cyclical nature of the primary industry in which we operate is largely a function of our customers capital spending patterns and need for expanded manufacturing capacity, which in turn are affected by factors such as capacity utilization, consumer demand for products, inventory levels and our customers access to capital. this cyclicality affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, in some cases, future expense levels. in the current environment, our ability to accurately predict our future operating results is particularly limited. during down cycles in our industry, the financial results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in, or cancellation or delay of, orders (which are generally subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty) but also a weakening of their financial condition that could impair their ability to pay for our products or our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers. when cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. during periods of declining revenues, as was experienced during fiscal year 2009, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. if we fail to respond, or if our attempts to respond fail to accomplish our intended results, then our business could be seriously harmed. furthermore, any workforce reductions and cost reduction actions that we adopt in response to down cycles may result in additional restructuring charges, disruptions in our operations and loss of key personnel. in addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. we can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. each of these factors could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. in addition, the semiconductor equipment industry and other industries that we serve are constantly developing and changing over time. these changes currently, or in the future may, include the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers investment decisions; the variability of future growth rates in the semiconductor and related industries; the ever-increasing cost and complexity involved in the adoption by our customers of technology advances and the potential impact that may have on their rate of adoption; pricing trends in the end-markets for consumer electronics and other products, which places a growing emphasis on our customers cost of ownership; overall changes in capital spending patterns by our customers; and demand by semiconductor manufacturers for shorter cycle times for developing, manufacturing and installing capital equipment. further, many semiconductor manufacturers have recently experienced decreased profitability, causing them to enter into collaboration or sharing arrangements for capacity, cost or risk with other manufacturers, outsource manufacturing activities, focus only on specific markets or applications, or purchase less manufacturing equipment. any of the changes described in this paragraph may, particularly during periods of challenging macroeconomic conditions, negatively affect our customers rate of investment in capital equipment, which could result in downward pressure on our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins. if we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from any of these or other potential changes in our industries, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. 15 table of contents we are exposed to risks associated with a weakening in the condition of the financial markets and the global economy. the severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets and weakening of the global economy that were experienced during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009 contributed to slowdowns in the industries in which we operate, which slowdowns could recur or worsen if economic conditions were to deteriorate again. the markets for semiconductors, and therefore our business, are ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. economic uncertainty frequently leads to reduced consumer and business spending, which, in the recent economic slowdown, caused our customers to decrease, cancel or delay their equipment and service orders from us. in addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit that accompanied that slowdown made it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. reduced demand, combined with delays in our customers ability to obtain financing (or the unavailability of such financing), has in recent periods adversely affected our product and service sales and revenues and therefore has harmed our business and operating results, and our operating results and financial condition may again be adversely impacted if economic conditions decline from their current levels. in addition, a decline in the condition of the global financial markets could adversely impact the market values or liquidity of our investments. our investment portfolio includes corporate and government securities, auction rate securities, money market funds and other types of debt and equity investments. although we believe our portfolio continues to be comprised of sound investments due to the quality and (where applicable) credit ratings and government guarantees of the underlying investments, a decline in the capital and financial markets would adversely impact the market values of our investments and their liquidity. if the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. if we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from difficult macroeconomic conditions, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. we face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer. these competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. in addition, we face competition from smaller emerging semiconductor equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. the strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of continuing significant investments in product research and development. however, we may enter new markets, whether through acquisitions or new internal product development, in which competition is based primarily on product pricing, not technological superiority. further, some new growth markets that emerge may not require leading technologies. loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve, or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. 16 table of contents we are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. our customer base, particularly in the semiconductor industry, historically has been, and is becoming increasingly, highly concentrated. in this environment, orders from a relatively limited number of manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of our sales. in addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. if customers do not place orders, or they delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to replace the business. furthermore, because our products are configured to customer specifications, any changes, delays or cancellations of orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. as a result of the consolidation within our customer base, the customers that survive that consolidation represent a greater portion of our sales. those surviving customers may have more aggressive policies regarding engaging alternative, second-source suppliers for the products we serve and, in addition, may seek, and on occasion receive, pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to us. any of these changes could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins. also, certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. as a result of the recent challenging economic environment, we have been exposed to additional risks related to the continued financial viability of certain of our customers. to the extent our customers experience liquidity issues, we may be required to incur additional bad debt expense with respect to receivables owed to us by those customers. in addition, customers with liquidity issues may be forced to discontinue operations or may be acquired by one of our customers, and in either case such event would have the effect of further consolidating our customer base. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. risks related to our business if we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. for example, the size of semiconductor devices continues to shrink, and the industry is currently transitioning to the use of new materials and innovative fab processes. while we expect these trends will increase our customers reliance on diagnostic products such as ours, we cannot be sure that these trends will directly improve our business. these and other evolving customer needs require us to respond with continued development programs and to cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop and introduce new products that successfully address changing customer needs, to win market acceptance of these new products and to manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. in this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance, features and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands. substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. there can be no assurance that revenues from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements. in addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. 17 table of contents our business would be harmed if we do not receive parts sufficient in number and performance to meet our production requirements and product specification in a timely and cost-effective manner. we use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. because of the variability and uniqueness of customers orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. we seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. also, key parts we obtain from some of our suppliers incorporate the suppliers proprietary intellectual property; in those cases we are increasingly reliant on third parties for high-performance, high-technology components, which reduces the amount of control we have over the availability and protection of the technology and intellectual property that is used in our products. in addition, if certain of our key suppliers experience liquidity issues and are forced to discontinue operations, which is a heightened risk during economic downturns, that would affect their ability to deliver parts and could result in delays for our products. our operating results and business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain parts to meet our production requirements and product specifications, or if we are only able to do so on unfavorable terms. disruption of our manufacturing facilities or other operations, or in the operations of our customers, due to earthquake, flood, other natural catastrophic events, health epidemics or terrorism could result in cancellation of orders, delays in deliveries or other business activities, or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. we have significant manufacturing operations in the united states, singapore, israel, belgium and germany. in addition, our business is international in nature, with our sales, service and administrative personnel and our customers located in numerous countries throughout the world. operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly subcontractors, as well as our other operations and those of our customers, are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics, fire, earthquake, volcanic eruptions, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. such disruption could cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products at customer sites. we cannot ensure that alternate means of conducting our operations (whether through alternate production capacity or service providers or otherwise) would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if such alternate means were available, they could be obtained on favorable terms. as part of our cost-cutting actions, we have consolidated several operating facilities. our california operations are now primarily centralized in our milpitas facility. the consolidation of our california operations into a single campus could further concentrate the risks related to any of the disruptive events described in the preceding paragraph, such as acts of war or terrorism, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters, if any such event were to impact our milpitas facility. we outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations. we outsource a number of services, including our transportation and logistics management of spare parts and certain accounting functions, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers. while outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered. it is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered or services rendered, on our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions, or on our ability to ensure compliance with all applicable domestic and foreign laws and regulations. disruptions or delays at our third- 18 table of contents party service providers due to events such as regional economic, business, environmental or political events, information technology system failures or military actions could adversely impact our operations and our ability to ship products, manage our product inventory or record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. if we are unable to maintain our lead or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets. our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. we own various united states and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. the process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our business that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. in addition, we at times engage in collaborative technology development efforts with our customers and suppliers, and these collaborations may constitute a key component of certain of our ongoing technology and product research and development projects. the termination of any such collaboration, or delays caused by disputes or other unanticipated challenges that may arise in connection with any such collaboration, could significantly impair our research and development efforts, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. we also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. however, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld or successfully deter infringement by third parties. while patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. we also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. however, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. in addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors. we might be involved in intellectual property disputes or other intellectual property infringement claims that may be costly to resolve, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. as is typical in the semiconductor equipment industry, from time to time we have received communications from other parties asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. in addition, we occasionally receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to intellectual property claims made against such customers by third parties. litigation tends to be expensive and requires significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. our customary practice is to evaluate such infringement assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. however, we cannot ensure that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms 19 table of contents or that costly litigation or other administrative proceedings will not occur. the inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms, or the instigation of litigation or other administrative proceedings, could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our key employees, our sales and product development could be harmed. our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. we generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. the expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. if we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. if we fail to operate our business in accordance with our business plan, our operating results, business and stock price may be significantly and adversely impacted. we attempt to operate our business in accordance with a business plan that is established annually, revised frequently (generally quarterly), and reviewed by management even more frequently (at least monthly). our business plan is developed based on a number of factors, many of which require estimates and assumptions, such as our expectations of the economic environment, future business levels, our customers willingness and ability to place orders, lead-times, and future revenue and cash flow. our budgeted operating expenses, for example, are based in part on our future revenue expectations. however, our ability to achieve our anticipated revenue levels is a function of numerous factors, including the volatile and cyclical nature of our industry, customer order cancellations, macroeconomic changes, operational matters regarding particular agreements, our ability to manage customer deliveries and resources for the installation and acceptance of our products (for products where customer acceptance is required before we can recognize revenue from such sales), our ability to manage delays or accelerations by customers in taking deliveries and the acceptance of our products (for products where customer acceptance is required before we can recognize revenue from such sales), our ability to operate our business and sales processes effectively, and a number of the other risk factors set forth in this item 1a. because our expenses are in most cases relatively fixed in the short term, any revenue shortfall below expectations could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, if we fail to manage our expenses effectively or otherwise fail to maintain rigorous cost controls, we could experience greater than anticipated expenses during an operating period, which would also negatively affect our results of operations. if we fail to operate our business consistent with our business plan, our operating results in any period may be significantly and adversely impacted. such an outcome could cause customers, suppliers or investors to view us as less stable, or could cause us to fail to meet financial analysts revenue or earnings estimates, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or stock price. acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. we are also exposed to risks in connection with strategic alliances into which we may enter. in addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions and acquire new technologies from external sources. as part of this effort, we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that acquisitions we complete will be successful. in addition, we may use equity to finance future acquisitions, which would increase our number of shares outstanding and be dilutive to current stockholders. if we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results may suffer. it is possible that the businesses we have acquired, as 20 table of contents well as businesses that we may acquire in the future, may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected. in addition, we may lose key employees of the acquired companies. as a result, risks associated with acquisition transactions may give rise to a material adverse effect on our business and financial results for a number of reasons, including: we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses; the combination of businesses may cause the loss of key personnel or an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our company and/or the acquired business; we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from our acquisitions; we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products; we may face difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; the customers, distributors, suppliers, employees and others with whom the companies we acquire have business dealings may have a potentially adverse reaction to the acquisition; we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions. at times, we may also enter into strategic alliances with customers, suppliers or other business partners with respect to development of technology and intellectual property. these alliances typically require significant investments of capital and exchange of proprietary, highly sensitive information. the success of these alliances depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control and requires ongoing and effective cooperation with our strategic partners. mergers and acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq requirements, is becoming increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business. federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. these laws, rules and regulations have increased, and in the future are expected to continue to increase, the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management attention from business operations. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. if international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. the threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. any act of terrorism which affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. this same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability 21 table of contents to timely deliver their products. if international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. we self insure certain risks including earthquake risk. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. we purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain other risks are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. an earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, a significant portion of which are conducted in california, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. it could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts on new products, much of which is also conducted in california. we take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. we self insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our large cash reserves and the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. certain other risks are also self-insured either based on a similar cost-benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. if one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial loss. a change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices (or changes in interpretations of such standards, practices or rules) can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to (or revised interpretations of) existing tax or accounting rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, the adoption of the authoritative guidance for stock-based compensation , which required us to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method beginning in fiscal year 2006 and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements, has had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, as reported under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. a change in our effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business. a number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, such as the recent proposal by president obama administration, if enacted); changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. a change in our effective tax rate can adversely impact our results from operations. we are exposed to various risks related to the legal, regulatory and tax environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business. we are subject to various risks related to compliance with new, existing, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with which we must comply, including environmental, safety, antitrust and export control regulations. for example, we are subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with our global business operations, including regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of our products, 22 table of contents recycling and disposal of materials used in our products or in producing our products, the operation of our facilities, and the use of our real property. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future laws, rules or regulations, or changes to existing laws, rules or regulations, including changes that result in inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules or regulations, in the countries in which we operate could result in violations of contractual or regulatory obligations that may adversely affect our reported financial results or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, we may from time to time be involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding employment, contracts, product performance, product liability, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, unfair competition and other matters (in addition to proceedings and claims related to intellectual property matters, which are separately discussed elsewhere in this item 1a). these legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, divert management attention and resources, and/or inhibit our ability to sell our products. there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims, which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and our ability to operate our business. we are also exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally. governments and government agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, so there is no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future. in addition, under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs. any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program. for example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded. we do not know the outcome of any future audits. any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and our ability to operate our business. furthermore, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income or other taxes against us. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. a majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the united states, and we maintain significant operations outside the united states. we are exposed to numerous risks as a result of the international nature of our business and operations. a majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the united states, and we maintain significant operations outside the united states. we expect that these conditions will continue in the foreseeable future. managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversity and organizational alignment. moreover, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. periodic local or international economic downturns, trade balance issues, tariffs or other trade barriers, political instability, legal or regulatory changes or terrorism in regions where we have operations or where we do business, along with fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. although we attempt to manage near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. 23 table of contents we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. we have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro and the japanese yen. we have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. in addition, an increasing proportion of our manufacturing activities are conducted outside of the united states, and many of the costs associated with such activities are denominated in foreign currencies. we routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations, but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency exchange rate fluctuations. to the extent that these hedges are inadequate, or if there are significant currency exchange rate fluctuations in currencies for which we do not have hedges in place, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. furthermore, if a financial counter-party to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material financial losses. we are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring and banking arrangements. we enter into factoring arrangements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. in addition, we maintain bank accounts with several domestic and foreign financial institutions, any of which may prove not to be financially viable. if we were to stop entering into these factoring arrangements, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by delays or failures in collecting trade receivables. however, by entering into these arrangements, and by engaging these financial institutions for banking services, we are exposed to additional risks. if any of these financial institutions experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of our factoring or deposit arrangements, we may experience material financial losses due to the failure of such arrangements or a lack of access to our funds, any of which could have an adverse impact upon our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. there are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. as of june 30, 2010, we had $750 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness represented by our senior notes that will mature in 2018, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and the other risk factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. factors that can affect our credit rating include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, our financial position, and changes in our business strategy. in certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of our senior notes, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase the senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. we cannot make any assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources at such time or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of the senior notes. our ability to repurchase the senior notes in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with the senior notes, or by the terms of other agreements to which we may be party at such time. if we fail to repurchase the senior notes as required by the indenture, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the senior notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other of our obligations. 24 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts. our board of directors first instituted a quarterly dividend during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2005. since that time, we have announced two increases in the amount of our quarterly dividend level. we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. in addition, we and our stockholders are exposed to risks related to the volatility of the market for our common stock. our investment portfolio consists of both corporate and government securities that have a maximum effective maturity of 10 years. the longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. as yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. we have the ability to realize the full value of all these investments upon maturity. unrealized losses are due to changes in interest rates and bond yields. in addition, the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly during recent years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to various factors, including without limitation conditions in the semiconductor industry and other industries in which we operate, fluctuations in the global economy or capital markets, our operating results or other performance metrics, or adverse consequences experienced by us as a result of any of the risks described elsewhere in this item 1a. volatility in the market price of our common stock could cause an investor in our common stock to experience a loss on the value of their investment in us and could also adversely impact our ability to raise capital through the sale of our common stock or to use our common stock as consideration to acquire other companies. we have recorded significant restructuring, inventory write-off and asset impairment charges in the past and may do so again in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business. during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009, we recorded material restructuring charges of $38.7 million related to our global workforce reduction, large excess inventory write-offs of $85.6 million, and material impairment charges of $446.7 million related to our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. if we were to encounter challenging economic conditions once again, we may implement additional cost reduction actions, which would require us to take additional, potentially material, restructuring charges related to, among other things, employee terminations or exit costs. we may also be required to write off additional inventory if our product build plans or usage of service inventory decline, and such additional write-offs could constitute material charges. as noted above, we recorded a material charge during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009 related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. goodwill represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. goodwill is not amortized, but is instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with authoritative guidance for goodwill. purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with authoritative guidance for long-lived assets. the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including 25 table of contents revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. a substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we used to calculate the amount of such impairment charge, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge. any such additional material charges, whether related to restructuring or goodwill or purchased intangible asset impairment, may have a material negative impact on our operating results and related financial statements. we are exposed to risks related to our commercial terms and conditions, including our indemnification of third parties, as well as the performance of our products. although our standard commercial documentation sets forth the terms and conditions that we intend to apply to commercial transactions with our business partners, counterparties to such transactions may not explicitly agree to our terms and conditions. in situations where we engage in business with a third party without an explicit master agreement regarding the applicable terms and conditions, or where the commercial documentation applicable to the transaction is subject to varying interpretations, we may have disputes with those third parties regarding the applicable terms and conditions of our business relationship with them. such disputes could lead to a deterioration of our commercial relationship with those parties, costly and time-consuming litigation, or additional concessions or obligations being offered by us to resolve such disputes, or could impact our revenue or cost recognition. any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, in our commercial agreements, from time to time in the normal course of business we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and lessors, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. we may be compelled to enter into or accrue for probable settlements of alleged indemnification obligations or subject to potential liability arising from our customers involvements in legal disputes. in addition, notwithstanding the provisions related to limitations on our liability that we seek to include in our business agreements, the counter-parties to such agreements may dispute our interpretation or application of such provisions, and a court of law may not interpret or apply such provisions in our favor, any of which could result in an obligation for us to pay material damages to third parties and engage in costly legal proceedings. it is difficult to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligations, whether or not asserted, due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in any particular claim. our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes. we are also exposed to potential costs associated with unexpected product performance issues. our products and production processes are extremely complex and thus could contain unexpected product defects, especially when products are first introduced. unexpected product performance issues could result in significant costs being incurred by us, including increased service or warranty costs, providing product replacements for (or modifications to) defective products, litigation related to defective products, product recalls, or product write-offs or disposal costs. these costs could be substantial and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, our reputation with our customers could be damaged as a result of such product defects, which could reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our business. 26 table of contents we rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operation. our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operations. our global operations are linked by information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. despite our implementation of network security measures, our tools and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and tools located at customer sites, or could be subject to system failures or malfunctions for other reasons. system failures or malfunctioning, such as difficulties with our customer relationship management ( crm ) system, could disrupt our operations and our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our financial results. in addition, any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular operation of such systems or as a result of the integration of our acquired businesses into such systems) could adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes, such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement arrangement into which we have entered. in connection with the settlement of certain government actions and other legal proceedings related to our historical stock option practices, we have explicitly agreed as a condition to such settlements that we will comply with certain laws, such as the books and records provisions of the federal securities laws. if we were to violate any such law, we might not only be subject to the significant penalties applicable to such violation, but our past settlements may also be impacted by such violation, which could give rise to additional government actions or other legal proceedings. any such additional actions or proceedings may require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, and may divert attention and resources from the operation of our business. these expenditures and diversions, as well as an adverse resolution of any such action or proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency hedges. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of june 30, 2010. actual results may differ materially. as of june 30, 2010, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.0 billion, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents. these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2010, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by $1.3 million. as of june 30, 2010, we had net forward and option contracts to sell $38.9 million in foreign currency in order to hedge certain currency exposures (detail of these contracts and hedging activities is included in note 16, derivative instruments and hedging activities to the consolidated financial statements). if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2010, the u.s. dollar equivalent would have been $44.4 million. a 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $21.5 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on our income or cash flows. in april 2008, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.90% senior unsecured notes due in 2018. the fair market value of long-term fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. at june 30, 2010, the book value and the fair value of our fixed rate debt were $745.7 million and $834.4 million, respectively. at june 30, 2009, the book value and the fair value of our fixed rate debt were $745.2 million and $702.0 million, respectively. 56 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at june 30, 2004. actual results may differ materially. at the end of fiscal year 2004, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.07 billion, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements found under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k). these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2004, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $3 million. as of june 30, 2004, we had net forward contracts to sell $107 million in foreign currency in order to hedge currency exposures (detail of these contracts is included in note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under derivative instruments. if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2004, the u.s. dollar equivalent would be $133 million. a 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $29 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that the hedging of our foreign currency exposure should have no material impact on income or cash flows. 44quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position at june 30, 2005. actual results may differ materially. at the end of fiscal year 2005, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $1.3 billion, excluding those classified as cash and cash equivalents (detail of these securities is included in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements found under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data in this annual report on form 10-k). these securities, as with all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of june 30, 2005, the fair value of the portfolio would have declined by $5.5 million. as of june 30, 2005, we had net forward contracts to sell $289 million in foreign currency in order to hedge currency exposures (detail of these contracts is included in note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under derivative instruments. if we had entered into these contracts on june 30, 2005, the u.s. dollar equivalent would be $281 million. a 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair value of the contracts by $39 million. however, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would increase by a similar amount. accordingly, we believe that the hedging of our foreign currency exposure should have no material impact on income or cash flows. 47risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47