risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including without limitation our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates." catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and other naturally-occurring events, such as solar flares. catastrophes can also be man- 37 made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological events, cyber events, explosions and destruction of infrastructure. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states and canada, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes and hail storms throughout the central, mid-atlantic and southeastern regions of the united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in western states and canada; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition to our operations in the united states and canada, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom, the republic of ireland and brazil as well as to a variety of worldwide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. severe weather events over the last two decades have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends, and potentially changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. during that time period, the insurance industry experienced increased catastrophe losses due to a number of potential causal factors, including, in addition to weather/climate variability, more people living in high-risk areas, population growth in areas with weaker enforcement of building codes, urban expansion and an increase in the average size of a house. for example, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced by us, and demographic changes have resulted in larger populations in coastal areas which historically have been subject to severe storms and related storm surge, thus expanding our potential for losses from hurricanes. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornado and hail storms in the united states have been more volatile during the last decade. the frequency and severity of wildfire losses have been elevated in more recent years. demographic changes in areas prone to wildfires have expanded our potential for losses from wildfires. moreover, we could experience more than one severe catastrophic event in any given period. all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to evaluate certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer and may be even less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. as a result, models for earthquakes and tornado and hail storms may have even greater difficulty predicting risks and estimating losses. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. as compared to natural catastrophes, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism and cyber events, is even more difficult and less reliable, and for some events (both natural and man-made), models are either in early stages of development and, therefore, not widely adopted, or are not available. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of the total amount of insured exposure affected by the event, the severity of the event and the coverage provided, which can be both property and casualty coverages. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, the number of policyholders exposed to certain events and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. similarly, the potential for losses from a cyber event can be larger to the extent that the event impacts platforms, systems or vulnerabilities shared by a large number of policyholders. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation restricting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies, seek to prevent the application of deductibles included in the policies or seek to limit the exercise of certain insurer rights available under the policies. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. furthermore, reduction or elimination of 38 the national flood insurance program could result in an increase in our exposure to flood risk. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also factors that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the limited availability of the necessary labor and supplies, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; late reported claims; litigation; and reinsurance collectability. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted in subsequent periods as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance on a going-forward basis. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in which we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations and the program is scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020. under current provisions of this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 81% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.52 billion for 2019. the federal government reimbursement percentage will fall from 81% to 80% in 2020. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. for example, application of the law to a specific event will depend upon whether the government has designated such event as a covered event. it is also possible that future legislation could change or eliminate the program, which could adversely affect our business by increasing our exposure to terrorism losses, or by lowering our business volume through efforts to avoid that exposure. for a further description of the terrorism risk insurance program, see note 5 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural or man-made events, such as a terrorist attack or other intentionally destructive acts, including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events or cyber events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising from a high frequency of high-severity natural catastrophes and/or of man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means. in addition, while we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving unconventional means, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, including as a result of, among other things, changes in the legal, regulatory and economic environments in which the company operates, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures and technology changes which may impact medical, auto and home repair costs; economic conditions, including general and wage inflation; legal trends, including social inflation (increased litigation, expanded theories of liability and higher jury awards); and legislative changes, among others. the 39 impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate and could be material. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). it is possible that, among other things, past or future steps taken by the federal government and the federal reserve to stimulate the u.s. economy, including actions to manage interest rates, tax reform, the imposition of tariffs and other changes in international trade regulation, could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered long tail, such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. in addition, a significant portion of claims costs, including those in long tail lines of business, consists of medical costs. changes in healthcare legislation could significantly impact the availability, cost and allocation of payments for medical services, and it is possible that, as a result, inflationary pressures in medical costs may increase or claim frequency and/or severity may otherwise be adversely impacted. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties, increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. in addition, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may be influenced by other external factors, including increased attorney involvement in insurance claims. we continually refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled, and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, could vary significantly from period to period, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." during or following a period of financial market disruption or an economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. worldwide financial markets and economic conditions have, from time to time, experienced significant disruption or deterioration and likely will experience periods of disruption or deterioration in the future. if financial markets experience significant disruption or if economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity likely would be adversely impacted. for example, financial market disruptions and economic downturns in the past have resulted in, among other things, reduced business volume, as well as heightened credit risk and reduced valuations for certain of our investments. an inflationary environment, as a result of government efforts to stabilize the economy after a disruption or otherwise, may also, as we discuss in risk factors above and below, adversely impact our loss costs and the valuation of our investment portfolio. financial market disruption or an economic downturn could be exacerbated by actual or potential economic and geopolitical instability in many regions of the world. this can impact our business even if we do not conduct business in the region subject to the instability. for example, due to globalization, instability in one region can spread to other regions where we do business. 40 the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could have a negative impact on economic conditions in the united kingdom and could result in unintended consequences in other countries as well. in the united states, actions or inactions of the united states government may also impact economic conditions. for example, actions that may be taken with respect to fiscal stimulus programs, a government shutdown, the debt ceiling, the federal budget, international trade and tariffs, interest rates, the affordable care act, tax laws and regulation generally, among other things, may contribute, positively or negatively, to economic conditions generally and create economic and fiscal uncertainty. several of the risk factors discussed above and below identify risks that could result from, or be exacerbated by, financial market disruption, an economic slowdown or economic uncertainty. these include risks discussed above related to our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, and those discussed below related to our investment portfolio, the competitive environment, emerging claim and coverage issues, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," particularly the "outlook" section, for additional information about these risks and the potential impact on our business. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and interest rate risk, and may suffer reduced or low returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 93% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2018 . changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value. at december 31, 2018, the net pre-tax unrealized loss in our fixed income portfolio was $137 million, compared to a pre-tax unrealized gain of $1.38 billion at december 31, 2017, as interest rates increased. any future increases in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) would result in an increase in that unrealized loss position, thereby adversely impacting our book value. despite the increase in interest rates in 2018, rates remain at very low levels relative to historical experience, and it is possible that rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is also subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default, and our non-fixed income investments could be negatively impacted as well. rapid changes in commodity prices, such as a significant decline in oil prices, could also subject certain of our investments to a higher risk of default. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: in recent years, many state and local governments have been operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations and other postretirement obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. the recent tax reform also could lead state and local governments to decrease taxes, which could result in a deterioration of the credit quality of these state and local governments. some municipal bond issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, particularly in light of the recent tax reform, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of 41 revenue. the collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. approximately 30% of the fixed maturity portfolio is expected to mature over the next three years (this includes the early redemption of bonds, assuming interest rates (including credit spreads) do not rise significantly by applicable call dates). as a result, even if our investment strategy does not significantly change over the next few years, the overall yield on and composition of our portfolio could be meaningfully impacted by the types of investments available for reinvestment with the proceeds of matured bonds. for example, if yields decrease when we reinvest such proceeds, our future net investment income would be adversely affected. in addition, depending on the specific bonds available for purchase at the time of re-investment, the mix of specific issuers in our fixed-income and municipal bond portfolio will change. our portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions (such as those related to interest from municipal bonds) and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. see changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us below. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate and real estate partnerships, all of which could be adversely impacted by declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships. from time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including investments with exposure to commodity price risk, such as oil. all of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. from time to time, the company enters into short positions in u.s. treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio, which can result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. we may, depending on circumstances in the future, including as a result of changes in economic and market conditions, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio as part of our ongoing efforts to seek appropriate risk-adjusted returns. these changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. for example, the percentage of our investment portfolio consisting of tax-exempt municipal bonds has decreased from 42% to 39% in the past year due, in part, to the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 on the municipal bond market. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we have received and continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims. factors underlying these claim filings include continued intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants who were 42 not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation, has contributed to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we experienced. we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we have received and continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims arise under various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla and similar state laws may be imposed on certain parties even if they did not cause the release or threatened release of hazardous substances and may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to asbestos and environmental claims. the company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; the emergence of a greater number of asbestos claims than anticipated as a result of extended life expectancies resulting from medical advances and lifestyle improvements; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes concerning coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these disputes; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; any impact on asbestos defendants we insure due to the bankruptcy of other asbestos defendants; the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. 43 while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." the intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, including an increasing number of start-ups, which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in recent years, pension and hedge funds and other entities with substantial available capital and potentially lower return objectives have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses. well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, as well as competitors that can take advantage of more favorable tax domiciles than the united states, may conduct business in ways that adversely impact our business volumes and profitability. further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely significantly on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels and/or greater choice, not only in personal lines (where we currently and may increasingly compete against direct writers), but also in commercial lines (where direct writers may become a more significant source of competition in the future, particularly in the small commercial market). similarly, customer behavior could evolve in the future towards buying insurance in point-of-sale distribution channels where we do not currently have a meaningful presence. consolidation within the insurance industry also could alter the competitive environment in which we operate, which may impact our business volumes and/or the rates or terms of our products. in personal insurance, the use of comparative rating technologies has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business as well as the industry as a whole. a substantial amount of the company's personal insurance new business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative rating technologies, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. because the use of this technology, whether by agents or directly by customers, facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. it also has resulted in an increase in the level of quote activity and a lower percentage of quotes that result in new business from customers, and these trends may continue or accelerate. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our business volume and underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, similar technology is starting to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business and that trend is likely to continue and may accelerate. in recent years, there have been new entrants into the small commercial insurance business and this trend may continue. technology companies or other third parties have created, and may in the future create, digitally-enabled business models, platforms or alternate distribution channels for personal or commercial business that may adversely impact our competitive position. these technology companies or other third parties may compete with us directly by providing, or arranging to provide, insurance coverage themselves. see also disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us below. other technological changes also present competitive risks. for example, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and may become an increasingly important competitive factor. in addition, our competitive position could be impacted if we are unable to deploy, in a cost effective manner, technology that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called big data analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions, or if our competitors collect and use data which we do not have the ability to access or use, or are able to use such data more efficiently and/or effectively than we are able to. see also our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology, particularly as our business processes become more digital below. competitive dynamics may impact the success of efforts to improve our underwriting margins on our insurance products. these efforts could include seeking improved rates, as well as improved terms and conditions, and could also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs. these efforts may not be successful and/or may result in lower retention 44 and new business levels and therefore lower business volumes. in addition, if our underwriting is not effective, further efforts to increase rates could also lead to adverse selection , whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost. for more detail, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations outlook." similar to other industries, the insurance industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological and other change. traditional insurance industry participants, technology companies, insurtech start-up companies, the number of which has increased significantly in recent years and some of which are supported by traditional insurance industry participants, and others are focused on using technology and innovation to simplify and improve the customer experience, increase efficiencies, redesign products, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the insurance industry. if we do not anticipate, keep pace with and adapt to technological and other changes impacting the insurance industry, it will harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products to customers, and materially and adversely affect our business. furthermore, innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences in the markets in which we operate also pose risks to our business. for example, technologies such as driverless vehicles, assisted-driving or accident prevention technologies, technologies that facilitate ride or home sharing, smart homes or automation could reduce the number of vehicles in use and/or the demand for, or profitability of, certain of our products, create coverage issues or impact the frequency or severity of losses, and we may not be able to respond effectively. overall, our competitive position in our various businesses is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to profitably price our business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and policyholder relationships; ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems; effectiveness of our claims process, including the speed of payment; ability to avoid and mitigate fraudulent claims; ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; ability to provide new products and services to meet changing customer needs; ability to adapt to changes in business models, technology, customer preferences or regulation impacting the markets in which we operate; ability to provide access to the distribution channels preferred by customers and prospective customers; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition or technological or other changes to the markets in which we operate limit our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers or our inability to manage effectively a changing distribution landscape could adversely affect us . we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries, as well as other insurance carriers such as geico with which we have had a marketing arrangement for homeowners' business since 1995. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with, and fees paid to, some agents and brokers, and/or otherwise negatively impact the pricing or distribution of our products. agents and brokers may increasingly compete with us to the extent that markets increasingly provide them with direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk or if they become affiliated with carriers that compete with us. see also the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. in all of the foregoing situations, loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new products or distribution channels, which could disrupt our relationships with our agents and brokers. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. access to greater levels of data and increased utilization of technology by agents and brokers may also impact our relationship with them and our competitive position. our efforts or their efforts with respect to new 45 products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize data and technology, could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. in certain markets, brokers increasingly have been packaging portfolios of risks together and offering them to fewer carriers as well as, in some cases, requesting a commitment to participate in such portfolios in advance. in these and other situations, agents and brokers have an increased influence over policy language and compensation structure which, if we participate on that basis, could adversely impact our ability to profitably manage underwriting risk. it could also lead to commoditization of products, which could increase the focus on price and cost management and decrease our ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace with customers based on other factors. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted below. customers in the past have brought claims against us for the actions of our agents. even with proper controls in place, actual or alleged errors or inaccuracies by our agents could result in our involvement in disputes, litigation or regulatory actions related to actions taken or not taken by our agents. we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face potential exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, such as lead paint, silica, talc and opioids. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business, including by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number, size or types of claims or by mandating changes to our underwriting practices. examples of such claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new or expanded theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' and/or errors and omissions insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities; failed financial institutions; fraud; improper sales practices; anti-trust allegations; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; claims related to data and network security breaches, information system failures or cyber events, particularly as the internet of things becomes more prevalent, including cases where coverage was not intended to be provided; the assertion of public nuisance or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a public nuisance ; claims related to liability or workers' compensation arising out of the spread of infectious disease or pandemic; 46 claims relating to abuse by an employee or a volunteer of an insured; claims that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative traumatic head injury from sports or other causes), resulting in liability or workers' compensation claims; claims alleging that one or more of our underwriting criteria have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the law, including the fair housing act; claims arising out of modern techniques and practices used in connection with the extraction of natural resources, such as hydraulic fracturing or wastewater injection; claims arising out of the use of personal cars, homes or other property in commercial transactions, such as ride or home sharing; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies or business models or processes, including as a result of related behavioral changes; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions, including higher frequency and severity of weather- related events. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. for example, the enactment by states of "reviver statutes," including the child victims act which the governor of new york is expected to sign into law in the near future, would allow civil claims to be brought in court that otherwise would have been barred by prior applicable statutes of limitations. other states are also considering similar legislative changes. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all and we are exposed to credit risk related to our structured settlements. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom as well as a small number of u.s. states, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to certain structured settlements. structured settlements are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. some of the life insurance companies from which we have purchased structured settlements have been downgraded to below investment grade credit ratings subsequent to the time of the purchase. if it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, we would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. in addition, the covered agreements between the u.s. and each of the eu and u.k. eliminate the requirement 47 for european and u.k. reinsurers operating in the u.s. to provide collateral in connection with reinsurance agreements, which could make it more difficult for u.s. companies, including us, to obtain sufficient collateral, if any, in such reinsurance arrangements. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are also exposed to credit risk in certain of our insurance operations and with respect to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations, including exposure to large customers who may have obligations to multiple third parties. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer, even though we are entitled to indemnification from such customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under casualty insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the settled claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation and/or general liability policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks, surety bonds or cash. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face an increased credit risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. further, the amount of collateral protection we have been able to obtain on the business we write in certain markets has decreased, and may continue to decrease, as a result of competition. we are also exposed to credit risk related to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. see note 16 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing, market conduct and financial supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies or an increase in amounts paid by guaranty funds could result in additional assessments levied against us. in addition, many states restrict the timing and/or the ability of an insurer to discontinue writing a line of business or to cancel or non-renew certain policies. 48 these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business including, recently, cyber-security. the state insurance regulatory framework has been under continuing scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. as part of these changes, insurance holding company regulations were amended to require insurers who are part of a holding company system to file an enterprise risk report to provide the lead insurance regulator with a summary of the company's enterprise risk management (erm) framework, including the material risks within the insurance holding company system that could pose risk to the insurance entities within the holding company system. insurers having premium volume above certain thresholds, including the company, are also required to perform at least annually a self-assessment of their current and future risks, including their likely future solvency position (known as an own risk and solvency assessment or orsa) and file a confidential report with the insurer's lead insurance regulator. the requirement for an insurer to conduct an orsa is intended to foster an effective level of erm at all insurers within a holding company system, and to provide a group-wide perspective on risk and capital as a supplement to the legal entity view. orsa is now included in the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) standards and is in various stages of implementation in the united states, europe, canada, and other jurisdictions. it is possible that, as a result of orsa and the manner in which it may be used by insurance regulators, our states of domicile or other regulatory bodies may require changes in our erm process (e.g., prescribe the use of specific models or the application of certain assumptions in the company's models) that have the effect of limiting our ability to write certain risks, limit our risk appetite to write additional business or reduce our capital management flexibility. see enterprise risk management for further discussion of the company's erm. the naic and state insurance regulators, as well as the federal reserve and federal insurance office, are currently working with the iais to develop a global common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs). if adopted, comframe would require the designation of a group-wide supervisor (regulator) for each iaig and would impose a group capital requirement that would be applied to an iaig in addition to the current legal entity capital requirements imposed by state insurance laws and regulations. in response to comframe, the naic developed a model law that allows state insurance regulators in the u.s. to be designated as group-wide supervisors for u.s.-based iaigs. additionally, the naic is developing a group capital analytical tool that would be applied to u.s.-based insurance groups in addition to the risk-based capital (rbc) requirement that is applied on a legal entity basis. these regulatory developments could increase the amount of capital that the company is required to have and could result in the company being subject to increased regulatory requirements. states may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations that could, among other things, restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to distribute funds to their parent companies or they could reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital and surplus requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, could be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (tcja) was signed into law. this is the first major revision of the u.s. tax code since 1986 and its ultimate impact is uncertain. for example, some elected federal and state officials and regulators have criticized the new law and may attempt to take legal, legislative, or regulatory actions designed to change the tcja's impact. the treasury department is in the process of finalizing regulations regarding the tcja and we expect several important areas of regulation to be finalized in 2019. other state legislative actions could impact our business as well. for example, changes to state law regarding workers' compensation insurance could impact the demand for our products, and the legalization of cannabis in certain states could potentially increase loss costs. state laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and, as a result, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies periodically review insurers' ratings and change their ratings criteria; therefore, our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could 49 negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into, maintain or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related or other catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. see also "during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected." for further discussion about our ratings, see "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends and/or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our u.s. insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory capital and surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to state insurance regulation as an insurance holding company system. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, insurance regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. our efforts to develop new products, expand in targeted markets or improve business processes and workflows may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. from time to time, to protect and grow market share and/or improve our efficiency, we invest in strategic initiatives to: develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured, contain new coverages or change coverage terms; change commission terms; change our underwriting processes; improve business processes and workflow to increase efficiencies and productivity and to enhance the experience of our customers and distributors; expand distribution channels; and enter geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in these efforts, and even if we are successful, they may create the following risks, among others: demand for new products or expansion into new markets may not meet our expectations; new products and expansion into new markets may change our risk exposures, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products; models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective; efforts to develop new products or markets and to change commission terms may create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us; in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins; and changes to our business processes or workflow, including the use of new technologies, may give rise to execution risk. these efforts may require us to make substantial expenditures, which may negatively impact results in the near term, and if not successful, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 50 we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize proprietary and third party models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry and other data, and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of the frequency and severity of losses, inflation, interest rates and capital requirements, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third-party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. third-party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. as a result, third-party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third-party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. in addition, as the number of third-party models increases, it becomes more difficult to validate and manage such models as they evolve over time, and the risk associated with assimilating the output from such models into our decisions increases. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure or fail to change our pricing models to appropriately reflect our experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, for example due to changes in behavior such as distracted driving, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology, particularly as our business processes become more digital. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business. as a result, our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner, particularly as our business processes become more digital. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits or perform as expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties, additional costs or accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to, and conduct business with, new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis, particularly if such an interruption lasts for an extended period of time. in the event of a computer virus or disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist or other attack or industrial accident, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, including cloud-based, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. business interruptions and failures of controls could also result if our internal systems do not interface with each other as intended or if changes to such systems are not effectively implemented. business continuity can also be disrupted by an event, such as a pandemic, that renders large numbers of a workforce unable to work as needed, particularly at 51 critical locations; for example, our largest location employs about 20% of our employees. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers (including individuals, organizations or rogue states) and employee or vendor misconduct, and other external hazards, could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. increased use of data supplied by third parties in our business increases our exposure to this risk. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. like other global companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses, malware or other malicious codes (including ransomware), unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material cyber-security breach. however, over time, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. our administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to detect or prevent unauthorized access, other physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. in addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks. our increased use of open source software, cloud technology and software as a service can make it more difficult to identify and remedy such situations due to the disparate location of code utilized in our operations. we have outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may increasingly do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, if we experience technological or other problems with a transition, or if outsourcing relationships relevant to our business process functions are terminated, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business . our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security, service disruptions or the effectiveness of our control system, which could result in monetary and reputational damages or harm to our competitive position. these risks could increase as vendors increasingly offer cloud-based software services rather than software services which can be run within our data centers or as we choose to move additional functions to the cloud. see also we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. in addition to risks caused by third party providers, our ability to receive services from third-party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or public policy inside or outside of the united states. the increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss or manipulation, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages, competitive disadvantage and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under evolving cyber-security, data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the u.s. federal and state governments, canada, the european union or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. as an example, the european general data protection regulation became applicable in all european union member states beginning may 25, 2018. this regulation adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data and could impose a fine of up to 4% of global annual revenue for violations. it and similar regulations could result in increased compliance costs and potential fines for non-compliance being imposed on us or our insureds. as a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we are also subject to a number of additional risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in canada, the united kingdom and the republic of ireland. in addition, we conduct business in brazil, primarily through a joint venture, and we have an indirect interest in a joint venture in colombia. we may also explore opportunities in other countries, including other latin american countries and other emerging markets such as india. in conducting business outside of the united states, we are also subject to a number of additional risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions or requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business 52 and our reputation. a portion of our premiums from outside of the united states is generated in canada, a substantial portion of which consists of automobile premiums from the province of ontario, which is a highly regulated market that can result in rate inadequacy. our business activities outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk, or we may choose not to hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment and/or reputation. our business activities outside the united states could subject us to increased volatility in earnings resulting from the need to recognize and subsequently revise a valuation allowance associated with income taxes if we became unable to fully utilize any deferred tax assets, including loss carry-forwards from those foreign operations. also, political instability, particularly in emerging economies, and changing market conditions around the globe, could result in financial market disruption or an economic downturn in such regions. the u.k.'s withdrawal from the european union, for example, could have economic impacts such as inflation and decreased gdp in the u.k. and in regions that trade with the u.k. our business activities outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and/or an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture, and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. in addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets and other non-u.s. locations may be intense. if we are not able to hire, integrate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of employees with the knowledge and background necessary for our global businesses, those businesses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. regulatory changes outside of the united states, including in canada, the u.k., the republic of ireland and the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, implemented new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii on january 1, 2016 that apply to the company's businesses across the european union. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. parent is not already subject to regulations deemed equivalent to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where the company has operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and with the naic, the federal reserve and fio in the u.s.) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision and group capital requirements. the iais has developed a methodology for identifying global systemically important insurers (g-siis) and high level policy measures that will apply to the g-siis. the methodology and measures were endorsed by the financial stability board (fsb) created by the g-20. using the iais methodology, the fsb, working with national authorities and the iais, identified nine insurers in november 2016 that they designated as g-siis. the iais is working on the policy measures which include higher capital requirements and enhanced supervision. the company has not been designated as a g-sii by the fsb; however, the fsb updates the list annually, and it is possible that the methodologies could be amended or interpreted differently in the future and the company could be named as a g-sii. the iais is also in the process of developing the common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (comframe). as the current draft of comframe is completed, it likely will lead to similar policy measures as those being developed for g-siis being made applicable to internationally active insurance groups (or iaigs ), including group supervision, group capital requirements, and resolution planning, i.e., a written plan developed by a financial group detailing how it would be wound down in the event of an insolvency. the iais is currently in the process of field testing the group capital requirements. the company would be considered an internationally active insurance group under the current consultation draft. it is possible 53 that comframe, if adopted, could lead to enhanced supervision and higher capital standards on a global basis if the iais, the naic and the individual states adopt the proposed or similar provisions. the u.s. department of the treasury and the office of the u.s. trade representative have signed covered agreements (the covered agreements) regarding prudential (solvency) insurance and reinsurance measures with each of the eu and the u.k. the covered agreements include three areas of prudential insurance supervision: reinsurance contracts, group supervision, and the exchange of information between u.s. and u.k. regulators and between u.s. and eu regulators on insurers and reinsurers that operate in the u.s., u.k. and eu markets. the covered agreement with the eu went into effect in april 2018, while the covered agreement with the u.k. will take full effect at the earlier of the satisfaction of certain conditions or the u.k.'s exit from the eu. the covered agreements are intended to promote cooperation between u.s. insurance regulators and eu and u.k. insurance regulators and to limit the ability of the eu and the u.k. to apply solvency and group capital requirements to the worldwide operations of any u.s. insurer operating in the eu or u.k. it is possible that individual members of the eu could differ in how they adopt or implement the covered agreement, resulting in greater regulation and higher capital standards as well as inconsistent regulatory requirements among the jurisdictions that the company does business. while it is not yet known how or if these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management, and could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. loss of or significant restrictions on the use of particular types of underwriting criteria, such as credit scoring, or other data or methodologies, in the pricing and underwriting of our products could reduce our future profitability. our underwriting profitability depends in large part on our ability to competitively price our products at a level that will adequately compensate us for the risks assumed. as a result, risk selection and pricing through the application of actuarially sound and segmented underwriting criteria is critical. however, laws or regulations, or judicial or administrative findings, could significantly curtail the use of particular types of underwriting criteria. for example, we may use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and/or regulators have alleged that the use of credit scoring violates the law by discriminating against persons belonging to a protected class and are calling for the prohibition or restrictions on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. a variety of other underwriting criteria and other data or methodologies used in personal and commercial insurance have been and continue to be criticized by regulators, government agencies, consumer groups or individuals on similar or other grounds. resulting regulatory actions or litigation could result in negative publicity and/or generate adverse rules or findings, such as curtailing the use of important underwriting criteria, or other data or methodologies, each of which could adversely affect our future profitability. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition justify the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of, or other difficulties with, underwriting, risk management, claims handling, information technology and actuarial practices; uncertainties related to an acquiree's reserve estimates and its design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities; difficulties in achieving the strategic objectives of an acquisition, including the business, financial, technological or distribution objectives; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact on our financial position and/or credit ratings. the expected benefits of acquired businesses may not be realized, any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not be achieved and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated. acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial costs or delays and adversely affecting our ability to compete. accordingly, our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. 54 we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk), errors in financial reporting or damage to our reputation. see also if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships, or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. in addition, ineffective controls, including with respect to any joint ventures or recently acquired businesses, could lead to litigation or regulatory action. the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against various types of financial institutions have increased over time. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse financial impact. see note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees . there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized knowledge in areas such as underwriting, data and analytics, technology and e-commerce. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals, including our senior executives (many of whom have decades of experience in the insurance industry), and the board of directors regularly engages in succession discussions. see item 10-directors, executive officers and corporate governance for more information relating to our executive officers, including our senior leaders. for many of our senior positions, we compete for talent not just with insurance or financial service companies, but with other large companies and other businesses. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others. our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary trademarks, technology and other intellectual property. see "item 1 other information intellectual property." we may not, however, be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use and disclosure by others. further, the intellectual property laws may not prevent our competitors from independently developing trademarks, products and services that are similar to ours. moreover, the agreements we execute to protect our intellectual property rights may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies in response. our attempts to patent or register our intellectual property rights in the u.s. and worldwide may not succeed initially or may later be challenged by third parties. further, the laws of certain countries outside the united states may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. we may incur significant costs in our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the initiation of expensive and protracted litigation, and we may not prevail. any inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties from time to time that our products, services and technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. in recent years, certain entities have acquired patents in order to allege claims of infringement against companies, including in some cases, us. any intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of the merits of the claims. if we are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights, it could result in reputational harm, payment of significant monetary damages, payment of license fees (if licenses are even available to us, on reasonable terms or otherwise) and/or substantial time and expense to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid the infringement. in addition, we use third party software in some of our products, services and technologies. if any of our software vendors or licensors are faced with infringement claims, we may lose our ability to use such software until the dispute is resolved. if we cannot successfully redesign an infringing product, service or technology (or procure a substitute version), this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office (fio) within the u.s. department of the treasury. the fio has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, but it has in the past recommended an expanded federal role in some circumstances. the dodd-frank act also gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of nonbank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the fsoc) as systemically important financial institutions (sifi) or own a bank or thrift. the 55 company, based upon the fsoc's rules and interpretive guidance, has not been designated as a sifi and is not subject to regulation by the federal reserve. in addition, the federal reserve is moving away from sifi designations and we do not expect any new designations in the near future. nonetheless, it is possible that fsoc may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as a sifi, the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. the dodd-frank act also authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of sifi's that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, including any changes thereto as a result of its current re-evaluation or otherwise, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose additional burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other competitors that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. the current administration is reviewing rules and regulations across the entire federal regulatory spectrum, including treasury, the sec, the department of transportation, the department of labor and other agencies, as well as treaty relationships with parties to the north american free trade agreement. the u.s. entered into an agreement with canada and mexico to replace the north american free trade agreement with the united states mexico canada agreement (usmca). the usmca must be approved by the legislatures of all three countries in 2019. we expect executive action on regulatory changes to continue in 2019 and beyond. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation), could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us. tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us, including increasing the statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate. alternatively, federal tax legislation could be enacted to further reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 21%, which would, accordingly, reduce any u.s. net deferred tax asset. the amount of any net deferred tax asset is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, along with other changes in the tax rules that may increase the company's actual tax expense, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, a reduction in the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate could increase the after-tax effect of future significant loss events and our after-tax borrowing costs. additional uncertainties exist with respect to potential technical corrections, final regulations and other clarifications to the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017. our investment portfolio has benefited from certain tax exemptions and certain other tax laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, such legislation could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, particularly changes to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (which comprise 39% of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2018), which could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds. other tax law changes could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. for example, budget constraints faced by many states and localities increase the likelihood that state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2018 . the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2018 and 2017 was $72.28 billion and $72.50 billion , respectively, of which 88% and 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , approximately 6.7% and 7.3%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. for additional information regarding the company's investments, see notes 3 and 4 of notes to the consolidated financial statements 120 as well as the investment portfolio and outlook sections of item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt, see note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements as well as the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets, insurance reserves and shareholders' equity denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 4.1% and 4.4% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 1.9% and 2.0% of total invested assets at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2018 and 2017 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to the year ended december 31, 2017 . the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. near-term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 . for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2018 and 2017 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.31 billion and $2.08 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. 121 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $487 million and $528 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. 122risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including without limitation our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates." high levels of catastrophe losses, including as a result of factors such as increased concentrations of insured exposures in catastrophe-prone areas, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, solar flares and other naturally-occurring events. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological events, cyber events, explosions and destruction of infrastructure. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states and canada, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; severe wind and hail storms, including tornadoes, throughout the central, mid-atlantic, southcentral and southeastern regions of the united states; winter storms, particularly in the northern and central regions of the united states and in canada; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in western states and canada; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition to our operations in the united states and canada, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom and the republic of ireland as well as to a variety of worldwide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. severe weather events over the last two decades have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends, and changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. the insurance industry experienced increased catastrophe losses due to a number of potential causal factors, including, in addition to weather/climate variability, more people living in high-risk areas, population growth in areas with weaker enforcement of building codes, urban expansion and an increase in the average size of a house. for example, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced by us, and demographic changes have resulted in larger populations in coastal areas which historically have been subject to severe storms and related storm surge, thus expanding our potential for losses from hurricanes. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornado and hail storms in the united states have been more volatile during the last decade. the frequency and severity of wildfire losses have been elevated in more recent years, due in part to record droughts in california that some climate studies suggest are likely to increase over time. demographic changes in areas prone to wildfires have also expanded our potential for losses from wildfires. all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to evaluate certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation. as a result, these models may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer and may be less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. accordingly, these models may have greater difficulty predicting risks and estimating losses. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. as compared to natural catastrophes, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism and cyber events, is even more difficult and less reliable, and for some events (both natural and man-made), models are either in early stages of development and, therefore, not widely adopted, or are not available. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of the total amount of insured exposure affected by the event, the severity of the event and the coverage provided, which can be both property and casualty coverages. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, the number of policyholders exposed to certain events and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims resulting from a catastrophe. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is 38 inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. similarly, the potential for losses from a cyber event can be magnified to the extent that the event impacts platforms, systems or vulnerabilities shared by a large number of policyholders. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation restricting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may in the future result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies, seek to prevent the application of deductibles included in the policies or seek to limit the exercise of certain rights available to insurers under the policies. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs related to catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. furthermore, reduction or elimination of the national flood insurance program could result in an increase in our exposure to flood risk. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also factors that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the limited availability of the necessary labor and supplies, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; late reported claims; litigation; and reinsurance collectability. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted in subsequent periods as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance on a going-forward basis. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in which we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations and the program is scheduled to expire on december 31, 2027. under current provisions of this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 80% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.61 billion for 2020. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. for example, application of the law to a specific event will depend upon whether the government has designated such event as a covered event. it is also possible that future legislation could change or eliminate the program, which could adversely affect our business by increasing our exposure to terrorism losses, or by lowering our business volume through efforts to avoid that exposure. for a further description of the terrorism risk insurance program, see note 5 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising from a high frequency of high-severity natural catastrophes and/or of man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means. in addition, while we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, we may not have sufficient resources to respond 39 to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving unconventional means, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, including as a result of, among other things, changes in the legal/tort, regulatory and economic environments in which the company operates, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures, technology or other changes that may impact medical, auto and home repair costs (e.g., more costly technology in vehicles resulting in increased severity of claims); economic conditions, including general and wage inflation; legal trends, including adverse changes in the tort environment (e.g., increased and more aggressive attorney involvement in insurance claims, increased litigation, expanded theories of liability, higher jury awards, lawsuit abuse and third-party litigation finance, among others); and legislative changes, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate and could be material. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). see also "the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain, and court decisions or legislative changes which take place after we issue our policies can result in unexpected liabilities" below. it is possible that, among other things, past or future steps taken by the federal government and the federal reserve to stimulate the u.s. economy, including actions to manage interest rates, tax reform, the imposition of increased or additional tariffs and other changes in international trade regulation, could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered long tail, such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. in addition, a significant portion of claims costs, including those in long tail lines of business, consists of medical costs. changes in healthcare legislation could significantly impact the availability, cost and allocation of payments for medical services, and it is possible that, as a result, inflationary pressures in medical costs may increase or claim frequency and/or severity may otherwise be adversely impacted. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties, increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. we refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled, and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. as a result, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, could vary significantly from period to period, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. 40 for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." during or following a period of financial market disruption or an economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. worldwide financial markets and economic conditions have, from time to time, experienced significant disruption or deterioration and likely will experience periods of disruption or deterioration in the future. if financial markets experience significant disruption or if economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity likely would be adversely impacted. for example, financial market disruptions and economic downturns in the past have resulted in, among other things, reduced business volume, as well as heightened credit risk and reduced valuations for certain of our investments. financial market disruption or an economic downturn could be exacerbated by actual or potential economic and geopolitical instability in many regions of the world. this can impact our business even if we do not conduct business in the region subject to the instability. for example, due to globalization, instability in one region can spread to other regions where we do business or a pandemic can disrupt the global supply chain. in addition, the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could have a negative impact on economic conditions in the united kingdom and could result in unintended consequences in other countries as well. in the united states, actions or inactions of the united states government may also impact economic conditions. for example, actions that may be taken with respect to monetary policy, a government shutdown, the debt ceiling, the federal budget, international trade and tariffs, interest rates, health care legislation, tax laws and regulation generally, among other things, may contribute, positively or negatively, to economic conditions generally and create economic and fiscal uncertainty. several of the risk factors discussed above and below identify risks that could result from, or be exacerbated by, financial market disruption, an economic slowdown or economic uncertainty. these include risks discussed above related to our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, and those discussed below related to our investment portfolio, the competitive environment, emerging claim and coverage issues, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," particularly the "outlook" section, for additional information about these risks and the potential impact on our business. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and interest rate risk, and may suffer reduced or low returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 94% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2019 . changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value. the net pre-tax unrealized gain in our fixed income portfolio was $2.85 billion at december 31, 2019, compared to a net pre-tax unrealized loss of $137 million at december 31, 2018, due to a decline in interest rates during 2019. any future increases in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) would result in a decrease in that unrealized gain position, thereby adversely impacting our book value. interest rates continue to remain at very low levels relative to historical experience, and it is possible that rates will remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is also subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default, and our non-fixed income investments could be negatively impacted as well. rapid changes in commodity prices, such as a significant decline in oil prices, could also subject certain of our investments to a higher risk of default. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: in recent years, many state and local governments have been operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations and other 41 postretirement obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. the recent tax reform also could lead state and local governments to decrease taxes, which could result in a deterioration of the credit quality of these state and local governments. some municipal bond issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue. the collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. approximately 27% of the fixed maturity portfolio is expected to mature over the next three years (this includes the early redemption of bonds, assuming interest rates (including credit spreads) do not rise significantly by applicable call dates). as a result, even if our investment strategy does not significantly change over the next few years, the overall yield on and composition of our portfolio could be meaningfully impacted by the types of investments available for reinvestment with the proceeds of matured bonds. for example, if yields decrease when we reinvest such proceeds, our future net investment income would be adversely affected. in addition, depending on the specific bonds available for purchase at the time of re-investment, the mix of specific issuers in our fixed-income and municipal bond portfolio will change. our portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions (such as those related to interest from municipal bonds) and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. see changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us below. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate and real estate partnerships, all of which could be adversely impacted by declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships. from time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including investments with exposure to commodity price risk, such as oil. all of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. from time to time, the company enters into short positions in u.s. treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio, which can result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. we may, depending on circumstances in the future, including as a result of changes in economic and market conditions, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio as part of our ongoing efforts to seek appropriate risk-adjusted returns. these changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. for example, the percentage of our investment portfolio consisting of tax-exempt municipal bonds has decreased from 42% at december 31, 2017 to 38% at december 31, 2019 due, in part, to the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 on the municipal bond market. 42 because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. the intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, including an increasing number of start-ups, which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in recent years, pension and hedge funds and other entities with substantial available capital and potentially lower return objectives have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses. well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries and existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital may conduct business in ways that adversely impact our business volumes and profitability. further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely significantly on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels and/or greater choice, not only in personal lines (where we currently and may increasingly compete against direct writers), but also in commercial lines (where direct writers may become a more significant source of competition in the future, particularly in the small commercial market). similarly, customer behavior could evolve in the future towards buying insurance in point-of-sale or other non-traditional distribution channels where we do not currently have a meaningful presence or which are designed to sell products that we currently do not provide. consolidation within the insurance industry also could alter the competitive environment in which we operate, which may impact our business volumes and/or the rates or terms of our products. in personal insurance, the use of comparative rating technologies has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business as well as the industry as a whole. a substantial amount of the company's personal insurance new business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative rating technologies, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. because the use of this technology, whether by agents or directly by customers, facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. it also has resulted in an increase in the level of quote activity and a lower percentage of quotes that result in new business from customers, and these trends may continue or accelerate. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our business volume and underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, similar technology is starting to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business and that trend is likely to continue and may accelerate. in recent years, there have been new entrants into the small commercial insurance business and this trend may continue. technology companies or other third parties have created, and may in the future create, digitally-enabled business models, platforms or alternate distribution channels for personal or commercial business that may adversely impact our competitive position. these technology companies or other third parties may compete with us directly by providing, or arranging to provide, insurance coverage themselves. see also disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us below. other technological changes also present competitive risks. for example, our competitive position could be impacted if we are unable to deploy, in a cost effective and competitive manner, technology such as artificial intelligence and machine learning that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called big data analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions, or if our competitors collect and use data which we do not have the ability to access or use. in addition, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and may become an increasingly important competitive factor. see also our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology, particularly as our business processes become more digital below. competitive dynamics may impact the success of efforts to improve our underwriting margins on our insurance products. these efforts could include seeking improved rates, as well as improved terms and conditions, and could also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs. these efforts may not be successful and/or may result in lower retention and new business levels and therefore lower business volumes. in addition, if our underwriting is not effective, further efforts to increase rates could also lead to adverse selection , whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost. for more detail, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations outlook." 43 similar to other industries, the insurance industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological and other change. traditional insurance industry participants, technology companies, insurtech start-up companies, the number of which has increased significantly in recent years and some of which are supported by traditional insurance industry participants, and others are focused on using technology and innovation to simplify and improve the customer experience, increase efficiencies, redesign products, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the insurance industry. if we do not anticipate, keep pace with and adapt to technological and other changes impacting the insurance industry, it will harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products to customers, and materially and adversely affect our business. furthermore, innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences in the markets in which we operate also pose risks to our business. for example, technologies such as driverless vehicles, assisted-driving or accident prevention technologies, technologies that facilitate ride or home sharing, smart homes or automation could reduce the number of vehicles in use and/or the demand for, or profitability of, certain of our products, create coverage issues or impact the frequency or severity of losses, and we may not be able to respond effectively. while there is substantial uncertainty as to the timing of any impact, in the case of driverless vehicles in particular, new legal frameworks or business practices could be adopted that reduce the size of the auto insurance market. overall, our competitive position in our various businesses is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to profitably price our business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and policyholder relationships; ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology, information systems, data and analytics; effectiveness of our claims process, including the speed of payment; ability to avoid and mitigate fraudulent claims; ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; ability to provide new products and services to meet changing customer needs; ability to adapt to changes in business models, technology, customer preferences or regulation impacting the markets in which we operate; ability to provide access to the distribution channels preferred by customers and prospective customers; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition or technological or other changes to the markets in which we operate limit our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we have received and continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims. factors underlying these claim filings include continued intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on defendants, such as manufacturers of talcum powder, who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation, has contributed to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we experienced. we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number 44 of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we have received and continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims arise under various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla and similar state laws may be imposed on certain parties even if they did not cause the release or threatened release of hazardous substances and may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to asbestos and environmental claims. the company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; the emergence of a greater number of asbestos claims than anticipated as a result of extended life expectancies resulting from medical advances and lifestyle improvements; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes concerning coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these disputes; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; any impact on asbestos defendants we insure due to the bankruptcy of other asbestos defendants; the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." 45 disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers or our inability to manage effectively a changing distribution landscape could adversely affect us . we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries, as well as agency affiliates of other insurance carriers, such as geico, with whom we have had a distribution arrangement for homeowners' business since 1995. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with, and fees paid to, some agents and brokers, and/or otherwise negatively impact the pricing or distribution of our products. agents and brokers may increasingly compete with us to the extent that markets increasingly provide them with direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk or if they become affiliated with carriers that compete with us. see also the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. in all of the foregoing situations, loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new products or distribution channels, which could disrupt our relationships with our agents and brokers. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. access to greater levels of data and increased utilization of technology by agents and brokers may also impact our relationship with them and our competitive position. our efforts or their efforts with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize data and technology, including in ways that may be in direct competition with us, could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. in certain markets, brokers increasingly have been packaging portfolios of risks together and offering them to fewer carriers as well as, in some cases, requesting a commitment to participate in such portfolios in advance. in these and other situations, agents and brokers have an increased influence over policy language and compensation structure which, if we participate on that basis, could adversely impact our ability to profitably manage underwriting risk. it could also lead to commoditization of products, which could increase the focus on price and cost management and decrease our ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace with customers based on other factors. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted below. customers in the past have brought claims against us for the actions of our agents. even with proper controls in place, actual or alleged errors or inaccuracies by our agents could result in our involvement in disputes, litigation or regulatory actions related to actions taken or not taken by our agents. we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face potential exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, such as lead paint, silica, talc and opioids. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including adverse changes to the tort environment (e.g., increased and more aggressive attorney involvement in insurance claims, increased litigation, expanded theories of liability, higher jury awards, lawsuit abuse and third-party litigation finance, among others), disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 46 the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain, and court decisions or legislative changes that take place after we issue our policies can result in an unexpected increase in the number of claims and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business, including by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number, size or types of claims or by mandating changes to our underwriting practices. examples of such claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new or expanded theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' and/or errors and omissions insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities; failed financial institutions; fraud; improper sales practices; anti-trust allegations; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; claims related to data and network security breaches, information system failures or cyber events, including cases where coverage was not intended to be provided; the assertion of public nuisance or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs, including governmental entities, seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a public nuisance, such as litigation against lead paint manufacturers or manufacturers or distributors of opioids; claims related to liability or workers' compensation arising out of the spread of infectious disease or pandemic; claims relating to abuse by an employee or a volunteer of an insured; claims that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative traumatic head injury from sports or other causes), resulting in liability or workers' compensation claims; claims alleging that one or more of our underwriting criteria have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the law, including the fair housing act; claims arising out of modern techniques and practices used in connection with the extraction of natural resources, such as hydraulic fracturing or wastewater injection; claims arising out of the use of personal cars, homes or other property in commercial transactions, such as ride or home sharing; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies or business models or processes, including as a result of related behavioral changes; and claims relating to changing climate conditions, including claims alleging that our policyholders cause or contribute to changing climate conditions. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend or eliminate the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, a number of states have enacted legislation allowing victims of sexual molestation to file or proceed with claims that otherwise would have been time-barred and additional states are considering similar legislative changes. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all and we are exposed to credit risk related to our structured settlements. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom as well as a small number of u.s. states, 47 a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to certain structured settlements. structured settlements are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. some of the life insurance companies from which we have purchased structured settlements have been downgraded to below investment grade credit ratings subsequent to the time of the purchase. if it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, we would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events or unexpected adverse trends. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. in addition, the covered agreements between the u.s. and each of the eu and u.k. eliminate the requirement for european and u.k. reinsurers operating in the u.s. to provide collateral in connection with reinsurance agreements, which could make it more difficult for u.s. companies, including us, to obtain sufficient collateral, if any, in such reinsurance arrangements. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our insurance operations and with respect to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations, including exposure to large customers who may have obligations to multiple third parties. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer, even though we are entitled to indemnification from such customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under casualty insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the settled claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation and/or general liability policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks, surety bonds or cash. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, 48 the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face an increased credit risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. further, the amount of collateral protection we have been able to obtain on the business we write in certain markets has decreased, and may continue to decrease, as a result of competition. we are also exposed to credit risk related to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. see note 16 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing, market conduct and financial supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies or an increase in amounts paid by guaranty funds could result in additional assessments levied against us. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business including, recently, cyber-security. in addition, many states restrict the timing and/or the ability of an insurer to discontinue writing a line of business or to cancel or non-renew certain policies. the state insurance regulatory framework has been under continuing scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. as part of these changes, insurance holding company regulations were amended to require insurers who are part of a holding company system to file an enterprise risk report to provide the lead insurance regulator with a summary of the company's enterprise risk management (erm) framework, including the material risks within the insurance holding company system that could pose risk to the insurance entities within the holding company system. insurers having premium volume above certain thresholds, including the company, are also required to perform at least annually a self-assessment of their current and future risks, including their likely future solvency position (known as an own risk and solvency assessment or orsa) and file a confidential report with the insurer's lead insurance regulator. the requirement for an insurer to conduct an orsa is intended to foster an effective level of erm for all insurers within a holding company system, and to provide a group-wide perspective on risk and capital as a supplement to the legal entity view. orsa is now included in the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) standards and is in various stages of implementation in the united states, europe, canada, and other jurisdictions. it is possible that, as a result of orsa and the manner in which it may be used by insurance regulators, our states of domicile or other regulatory bodies may require changes in our erm process (e.g., prescribe the use of specific models or the application of certain assumptions or scenarios in the company's models) that have the effect of limiting our ability to write certain risks, limit our risk appetite to write additional business or reduce our capital management flexibility. see item 1 business enterprise risk management for further discussion of the company's erm. the naic and state insurance regulators, as well as the federal reserve and federal insurance office, are currently working with the iais to complete a global common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs). if adopted in the jurisdictions in which the company conducts business, comframe would require the designation of a group-wide supervisor (regulator) for each iaig and would impose a group capital requirement that would be applied to an iaig in addition to the current legal entity capital requirements imposed by state insurance laws and regulations. in response to comframe, the naic developed a model law that allows state insurance regulators in the u.s. to be designated as group-wide supervisors for u.s.-based iaigs. additionally, the naic is developing a group capital analytical tool that would be applied to u.s.-based insurance groups in addition to the risk-based capital (rbc) requirement that is applied on a legal entity basis. these regulatory developments could increase the amount of capital that the company is required to have and could result in the company being subject to increased regulatory requirements. see regulatory changes outside of the united states, including in canada, the u.k., the republic of ireland and the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth 49 for further discussion of these changes and how these changes could be impacted by the covered agreements between the u.s. and the eu and the u.k. states may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations that could, among other things, restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to distribute funds to their parent companies or they could reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital and surplus requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, could be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. other state legislative actions could impact our business as well. for example, changes to state law regarding workers' compensation insurance could impact the demand for our products, and the legalization of cannabis in certain states could potentially increase loss costs. state laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and, as a result, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies periodically review insurers' ratings and change their ratings criteria; therefore, our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into, maintain or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related or other catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. see also "during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected." for further discussion about our ratings, see "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends and/or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our u.s. insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory capital and surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to state insurance regulation as an insurance holding company system. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, insurance regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. our efforts to develop new products, expand in targeted markets or improve business processes and workflows may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. from time to time, to protect and grow market share and/or improve our efficiency, we invest in strategic initiatives to: improve business processes and workflow to increase efficiencies and productivity and to enhance the experience of our customers and distributors; change our underwriting processes; develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured, contain new coverages or change coverage terms; expand distribution channels; 50 change commission terms; and enter geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in these efforts, and even if we are successful, they may create the following risks, among others: changes to our business processes or workflow, including the use of new technologies, may give rise to execution risk; models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective; demand for new products or expansion into new markets may not meet our expectations; new products and expansion into new markets may change our risk exposures, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products; efforts to develop new products or markets and to change commission terms may create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us; and in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins. these efforts may require us to make substantial expenditures, which may negatively impact results in the near term, and if not successful, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize proprietary and third party models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry and other data, and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of the frequency and severity of losses, inflation, interest rates and capital requirements, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third-party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. third-party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. as a result, third-party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third-party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. in addition, as the number of third-party models increases, it becomes more difficult to validate and manage such models as they evolve over time, and the risk associated with assimilating the output from such models into our decisions increases. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure or fail to change our pricing models to appropriately reflect our experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, for example due to changing climate conditions, regulatory changes or changes in behavior such as distracted driving or a more aggressive tort environment, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology, particularly as our business processes become more digital. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business. as a result, our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner, particularly as our business processes become more digital. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits or perform as 51 expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties, additional costs or accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to, and conduct business with, new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis, particularly if such an interruption lasts for an extended period of time. in the event of a computer virus or disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist or other attack or industrial accident, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, including cloud-based, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. business interruptions and failures of controls could also result if our internal systems do not interface with each other as intended or if changes to such systems or our other business processes, such as new payment technologies, are not effectively implemented. business continuity can also be disrupted by an event, such as a pandemic, that renders large numbers of a workforce unable to work as needed, particularly at critical locations; for example, our largest location employs about 19% of our employees. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers (including individuals, organizations or rogue states) and employee or vendor misconduct, and other external hazards, could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. increased use of data supplied by third parties in our business increases our exposure to this risk. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. like other global companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses, malware or other malicious codes (including ransomware), unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material cyber-security breach. however, over time, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. our administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to detect or prevent unauthorized access, other physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. in addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks. our increased use of open source software, cloud technology and software as a service can make it more difficult to identify and remedy such situations due to the disparate location of code utilized in our operations. we have outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may increasingly do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, if we experience technological or other problems with a transition, or if outsourcing relationships relevant to our business process functions are terminated, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business . our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security, service disruptions or the effectiveness of our control system, which could result in monetary and reputational damages or harm to our competitive position. these risks could increase as vendors increasingly offer cloud-based software services rather than software services which can be run within our data centers or as we choose to move additional functions to the cloud. see also we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. in addition to risks caused by third party providers, our ability to receive services from third-party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or public policy inside or outside of the united states. 52 the increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss or manipulation, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages, competitive disadvantage and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under evolving cyber-security, data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the u.s. federal and state governments, canada, the european union or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. as an example, the european general data protection regulation became applicable in all european union member states beginning may 25, 2018. this regulation adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data and could impose a fine of up to 4% of global annual revenue for violations. it and similar regulations, including the california consumer privacy act which became effective on january 1, 2020, could result in increased compliance costs and potential fines for non-compliance being imposed on us or our insureds. as a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we are also subject to a number of additional risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in canada, the united kingdom and the republic of ireland. in addition, we conduct business in brazil, primarily through a joint venture, and we have an indirect interest in a joint venture in colombia. we may also explore opportunities in other countries. in conducting business outside of the united states, we are also subject to a number of additional risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions or requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. a portion of our premiums from outside of the united states is generated in canada, a substantial portion of which consists of automobile premiums from the province of ontario, which is a highly regulated market that can result in rate inadequacy. our business activities outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk, or we may choose not to hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment and/or reputation. our business activities outside the united states could subject us to increased volatility in earnings resulting from the need to recognize and subsequently revise a valuation allowance associated with income taxes if we became unable to fully utilize any deferred tax assets, including loss carry-forwards from those foreign operations. also, political instability, particularly in emerging economies, and changing market conditions around the globe, could result in financial market disruption or an economic downturn in such regions. the u.k.'s withdrawal from the european union, for example, could have economic impacts such as inflation and decreased gdp in the u.k. and in regions that trade with the u.k. for certain specialty business, we give managing general agents binding authority, which exposes us to additional risks. our business activities outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and/or an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture, and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. in addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets and other non-u.s. locations may be intense. if we are not able to hire, integrate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of employees with the knowledge and background necessary for our global businesses, those businesses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. regulatory changes outside of the united states, including in canada, the u.k., the republic of ireland and the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. 53 in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, implemented new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii on january 1, 2016 that apply to the company's businesses across the european union. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. parent is not already subject to regulations deemed equivalent to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where the company has operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and with the naic, the federal reserve and fio in the u.s.) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision and group capital requirements. the iais has developed a methodology for identifying global systemically important insurers (g-siis) and high level policy measures that will apply to the g-siis. the methodology and measures were endorsed by the financial stability board (fsb) created by the g-20. using the iais methodology, the fsb, working with national authorities and the iais, identified nine insurers in november 2016 that they designated as g-siis. the iais is working on the policy measures which include higher capital requirements and enhanced supervision. the company has not been designated as a g-sii by the fsb; however, it is possible that the methodologies could be amended or interpreted differently in the future and the company could be named as a g-sii. the iais is also in the process of completing the common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (comframe). as the current draft of comframe is completed, it likely will lead to similar policy measures as those being developed for g-siis being made applicable to internationally active insurance groups (or iaigs ), including group supervision, group capital requirements, and resolution planning, i.e., a written plan developed by a financial group detailing how it would be wound down in the event of an insolvency. while the company would not be considered an internationally active insurance group under the current consultation draft, it is possible that the consultation draft could be changed. if the company is designated as an iaig or the naic and individual states adopt the proposed or similar provisions for large insurers, the company could be subject to enhanced supervision and higher capital standards. the u.s. department of the treasury and the office of the u.s. trade representative have signed covered agreements (the covered agreements) regarding prudential (solvency) insurance and reinsurance measures with each of the eu and the u.k. the covered agreements include three areas of prudential insurance supervision: reinsurance contracts, group supervision, and the exchange of information between u.s. and u.k. regulators and between u.s. and eu regulators on insurers and reinsurers that operate in the u.s., u.k. and eu markets. the covered agreement with the eu went into effect in april 2018, while the covered agreement with the u.k. took full effect upon the u.k.'s exit from the eu on january 31, 2020. the covered agreements are intended to promote cooperation between u.s. insurance regulators and eu and u.k. insurance regulators and to limit the ability of the eu and the u.k. to apply solvency and group capital requirements to the worldwide operations of any u.s. insurer operating in the eu or u.k. it is possible that individual members of the eu could differ in how they adopt or implement the covered agreement, resulting in greater regulation and higher capital standards as well as inconsistent regulatory requirements among the jurisdictions that the company does business. while it is not yet known how or if these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management, and could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. loss of or significant restrictions on the use of particular types of underwriting criteria, such as credit scoring, or other data or methodologies, in the pricing and underwriting of our products could reduce our future profitability. our underwriting profitability depends in large part on our ability to competitively price our products at a level that will adequately compensate us for the risks assumed. as a result, risk selection and pricing through the application of actuarially sound and segmented underwriting criteria is critical. however, laws or regulations, or judicial or administrative findings, could significantly curtail the use of particular types of underwriting criteria. for example, we may use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and/or regulators have alleged that the use of credit scoring violates the law by discriminating against persons belonging to a protected class and are calling for the prohibition or restrictions on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. a variety of other underwriting criteria and other data or methodologies used in personal and commercial insurance have been and continue to be criticized by regulators, government agencies, consumer groups or individuals on similar or other grounds, such as the impact of external data sources, algorithms and predictive models on protected classes of customers. resulting regulatory actions or litigation could result in negative publicity and/or generate adverse rules or findings, such as curtailing the use of important underwriting criteria, or other data or methodologies, each of which could adversely affect our future profitability. 54 acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition justify the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of, or other difficulties with, underwriting, risk management, claims handling, information technology and actuarial practices; uncertainties related to an acquiree's reserve estimates and its design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities; difficulties in achieving the strategic objectives of an acquisition, including the business, financial, technological or distribution objectives; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact on our financial position and/or credit ratings. the expected benefits of acquired businesses may not be realized, any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not be achieved and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated. acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial costs or delays and adversely affecting our ability to compete. accordingly, our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk), errors in financial reporting or damage to our reputation. see also if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships, or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. in addition, ineffective controls, including with respect to any joint ventures or recently acquired businesses, could lead to litigation or regulatory action. the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against various types of financial institutions have increased over time. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse financial impact. see note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees . there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized knowledge in areas such as underwriting, data and analytics, technology and e-commerce. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly skilled individuals, including our senior executives (many of whom have decades of experience in the insurance industry), and the board of directors regularly engages in succession discussions. see item 10 directors, executive officers and corporate governance for more information relating to our executive officers, including our senior leaders. for many of our senior positions, we compete for talent not just with insurance or financial service companies, but with other large companies and other businesses. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others. our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary trademarks, technology and other intellectual property. see "item 1 business other information intellectual property." we may not, however, be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use and disclosure by others. further, the intellectual property laws may not prevent our competitors from independently developing trademarks, products and services that are similar to ours. moreover, the agreements we execute to protect our intellectual property 55 rights may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies in response. our attempts to patent or register our intellectual property rights in the u.s. and worldwide may not succeed initially or may later be challenged by third parties. further, the laws of certain countries outside the united states may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. we may incur significant costs in our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the initiation of expensive and protracted litigation, and we may not prevail. any inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties from time to time that our products, services and technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. in recent years, certain entities have acquired patents in order to allege claims of infringement against companies, including in some cases, us. any intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of the merits of the claims. if we are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights, it could result in reputational harm, payment of significant monetary damages, payment of license fees (if licenses are even available to us, on reasonable terms or otherwise) and/or substantial time and expense to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid the infringement. in addition, we use third party software in some of our products, services and technologies. if any of our software vendors or licensors are faced with infringement claims, we may lose our ability to use such software until the dispute is resolved. if we cannot successfully redesign an infringing product, service or technology (or procure a substitute version), this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us, and otherwise adversely impact our results. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office (fio) within the u.s. department of the treasury. the fio has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, but it has in the past recommended an expanded federal role in some circumstances. the dodd-frank act also gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of non-bank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the fsoc) as systemically important financial institutions (sifi) or own a bank or thrift. the company, based upon the fsoc's rules and interpretive guidance, has not been designated as a sifi and is not subject to regulation by the federal reserve. nonetheless, it is possible that fsoc may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as a sifi, the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. the dodd-frank act also authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of sifis that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, including any changes thereto as a result of its current re-evaluation or otherwise, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose additional burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other competitors that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation) or a change to the health care system that eliminates or reduces the need for the medical coverage component of workers' compensation insurance, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us. tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us, including increasing the statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate. additional uncertainties exist with respect to potential technical corrections, final regulations and other clarifications to the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017. our investment portfolio has benefited from certain tax exemptions and certain other tax laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, such legislation could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, particularly changes to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (which comprise 38% of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2019), which could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds. other tax law changes could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. for example, budget constraints faced by many states and localities increase the likelihood that state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2019 . the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. 117 the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2019 and 2018 was $77.88 billion and $72.28 billion , respectively, of which 87% and 88% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , approximately 6.6% and 6.7%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. for additional information regarding the company's investments, see notes 3 and 4 of notes to the consolidated financial statements as well as the investment portfolio and outlook sections of item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt, see note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements as well as the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets, insurance reserves and shareholders' equity denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 4.2% and 4.1% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 1.7% and 1.9% of total invested assets at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2019 and 2018 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to the year ended december 31, 2018 . the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. near-term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities and debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value-weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 . for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2019 and 2018 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. 118 table of contents the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.07 billion and $2.31 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $515 million and $487 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. 119risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather and fires. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events) or a consequence of war or political instability. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes in the northeast, florida, gulf coast and mid-atlantic regions; tornadoes in the midwest and southeast; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of the united states and canada; and wildfires in california. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. in recent years, changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, other storms and fires) in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events will increase. although the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms was not evident in the united states in 2007 and 2006, we believe that the overall trend of increased severity and frequency of storms experienced in the united states in 2005 and 2004, and experienced in the caribbean during 2007, may continue in the foreseeable future. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. also, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or social responsibilities. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also risks that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. 47 catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and may materially harm our financial position, which in turn could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase their capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. if our ratings were adversely affected, this in turn, could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations capital resources catastrophe reinsurance coverage." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition to catastrophe losses, the accumulation of losses from smaller weather-related events in any fiscal quarter or year could materially and adversely impact our results of operations in those periods. given the unpredictable frequency and severity of terrorism losses, as well as the limited terrorism coverage in our own reinsurance program, future losses from acts of terrorism, particularly those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. although the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007 provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. under this law, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events, or man-made events such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. if actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. these loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, reviews of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. in establishing reserves, we also take into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. the process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to 48 differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). we continually refine our loss reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. asbestos claims. we believe that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. while we have experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past several years, we continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from our policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against our policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. in addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos-related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including us. bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but who remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants previously considered peripheral, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we have experienced. in addition, our asbestos-related claims 49 and claim adjustment expense experience is impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or insolvency. we continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholder. accordingly, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to us but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. there also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for us. as in the past, we will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. we anticipate the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. environmental claims. we continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla may be joint and several with other responsible parties. we have been, and continue to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. we believe that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by us prior to the mid-1980s. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and we do not track the monetary amounts being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. asbestos and environmental claims. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for these claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies 50 we have issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against us and future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation, including legislation related to asbestos reform. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of large coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing study of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of our management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in medical costs and auto and home repair costs; judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; 51 increases in the number and size of claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims from directors' and officers' insurance relating to policyholders' losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution or structuring, possible accounting irregularities, and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs and/or to abate hazards to public health and safety; and medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. we use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property and casualty risks. the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. the ability of reinsurers to transfer their risks to other, less creditworthy reinsurers impacts our risk of collecting amounts due to us. accordingly, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive in the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. in addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business now offer products for alternative forms of risk protection, including large deductible programs and various forms of self-insurance that utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. continued growth in alternative forms of risk protection could reduce our premium volume. following the terrorist attack on september 11, 2001 and again following the hurricane activity in 2005 and 2004, a number of new insurers and reinsurers were formed to compete in the industry, and a number of existing market participants raised new capital to enhance their ability to compete. the company expects property casualty market conditions to continue to become more competitive in 2008, particularly for new business. see "item 7- management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation-outlook". 52 our competitive position is based on many factors, including but not limited to: our ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); our perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and our ability to keep pace relative to competitors with changes in technology and information systems. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "item 1 business competition." we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations and in our investment portfolio. we are exposed to credit risk in several areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to reinsurance, as discussed above, as well as credit risk related to policyholders in certain lines of insurance and credit risk associated with independent agents and brokers. a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies, i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period. retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. in addition to workers' compensation insurance, other lines of insurance also expose us to credit risk, such as surety insurance where we guarantee to a third party that our policyholder will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract). in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. the value of our investment portfolio is also subject to the risk that certain investments may become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial position of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a downgrade of the credit ratings of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments in our portfolio. in addition, defaults by the issuer and, where applicable, its guarantor, of certain investments that result in the failure of such parties to fulfill their obligations with regard to any of these investments could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. while we attempt to manage these risks through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic 53 downturn or recession. as a result, our exposure to any of the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the insurance industry and we are the subject of a number of investigations by state and federal authorities in the united states. we cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or the impact on our business practices or financial results. as part of ongoing, industry-wide investigations, we have received subpoenas and written requests for information from government agencies and authorities, including from the attorneys general of numerous states, various states' insurance and business regulators and the securities and exchange commission. the areas of pending inquiry addressed to us include our relationship with brokers and agents and our involvement with "non-traditional" insurance and reinsurance products. we may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these or other areas from government agencies or authorities. we are cooperating with these subpoenas and requests for information. for further information, see "item 3 legal proceedings". it would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters or the impact on our business or financial results. potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and/or changes in business practices that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, these investigations may result in changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could, in turn, also materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by government regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. this regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. this regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the national association of insurance commissioners (naic) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. in addition, congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the united states to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. we cannot predict the effect any proposed or future legislation or naic initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. although the united states federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation (e.g., the repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and our current 54 ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes, because demand for certain of our products in certain markets may be reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain existing business. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. for example, a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. the ratings are not in any way a measure of protection offered to investors in our securities and should not be relied upon with respect to making an investment in our securities. for further discussion about our ratings, see, "item 1 business ratings". our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates or in the fixed income, real estate, equity or alternative investment markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. changes in the general interest rate environment affect our returns on, and the market value of, our fixed income and short-term investments, which comprised approximately 94% of the market value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2007. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting our net investment income. conversely, rising interest rates reduces the market value of existing fixed income investments. in addition, defaults under, or impairments of, any of these investments as a result of financial problems with the issuer and, where applicable, its guarantor of the investment could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. we invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, venture capital investments, private equity limited partnerships, joint ventures, other limited partnerships, and trading securities, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. general economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed income investments and the realization of net investment income. as a result of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, we may incur losses on sales of our investments and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. the value of our investment portfolio can be subject to valuation uncertainties when the investment markets are dislocated. the valuation of investments is more subjective when the markets are illiquid and may increase the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the investment portfolio is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. our investment portfolio is invested, in significant part, in tax-exempt obligations. our portfolio has also benefited from certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. this result could occur in the context of deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. our holding company relies in part on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. 55 we are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the nature of and limitation on investments, the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and shareholders, the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds and the involuntary assumption of hard-to-place or high-risk insurance business, primarily in workers' compensation insurance lines. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in the united kingdom, canada and ireland. we have also started to explore opportunities in other countries, including in emerging markets such as india and china. while our business outside of the united states currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse affect on our business. in addition, some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology; certain significant multiyear strategic information technology projects are currently in process but may not be successful. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and 56 on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature and may cost more than we expect to complete and may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as internet support and 24-hour call centers processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. a shut-down of, or inability to, access one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. if sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. these increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. we outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. if we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. in addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the united states. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2007. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio as of december 31, 2007 and 2006 was $74.82 billion and $72.27 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 6.5% and 6.0%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk. the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio at december 31, 2007 included asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $286 million (comprising approximately 0.4% of the company's total fixed maturity investments). the company defines sub-prime mortgage-backed securities as investments which contain loans to borrowers that exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low fico scores, above-prime interest rates, high loan-to-value ratios, high debt-to-income ratios, low loan documentation (e.g., limited or no verification of income and assets), or other characteristics that are inconsistent with conventional underwriting standards employed by government-sponsored mortgage entities. alternative documentation mortgages are mortgage loans with low loan documentation as described above. the average credit rating on all of these securities and obligations held by the company was "aaa" at december 31, 2007. no securities in the residential mortgage portfolio were downgraded in 2007. the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio at december 31, 2007 included securities issued by numerous municipalities with a total carrying value of $38.82 billion. approximately $14.10 billion, or 36%, of the securities were enhanced by third-party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. such insurance generally results in a rating of "aaa" being assigned by independent ratings agencies to those securities. the downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities could result in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities 141 from "aaa" to the underlying rating of the respective security without giving effect to the benefit of insurance. of the total $14.10 billion of insured municipal securities in the company's investment portfolio, approximately 96% were rated at a3 or above, and approximately 76% were rated at aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. the company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the company's ability and intent to hold the securities. the primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities' duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 7 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the liquidity and capital resources section of management's discussion and analysis. the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.9% and 2.8% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. no other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the company's invested assets at december 31, 2007 or 2006. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2007 compared to the year ended december 31, 2006. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. the sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 142 for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2007 and 2006 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. as a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the company's consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the company's exposure to foreign currencies. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $485 million and $438 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 143 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, wildfires and volcanic eruptions. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events) or a consequence of war or political instability. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes throughout the central united states and southeast; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of the united states and canada; and wildfires, particularly in the southwest. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. some scientists believe that in recent years, changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, other storms and fires) in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, in recent years hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced, thus expanding our overall hurricane exposure. it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. the catastrophe modeling tools that we use to help manage certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. our expansion into new geographical areas as well as changing climate conditions could cause our catastrophe models to be even less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively manage such exposures. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. also, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment, changes in the general economic climate and/or social responsibilities. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also risks that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the 47 table of contents impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and may materially harm our financial position, which in turn could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase their capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item i business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in addition to catastrophe losses, the accumulation of losses from smaller weather-related events in any fiscal quarter or year could materially and adversely impact our results of operations in those periods. given the unpredictable frequency and severity of terrorism losses, as well as the limited terrorism coverage in our own reinsurance program, future losses from acts of terrorism, particularly those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. although the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007 provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. under this law, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. in addition, because this law is relatively new and its interpretation is untested, there may be uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events, or man-made events such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. financial disruption or a prolonged economic downturn may materially and adversely affect our business. worldwide financial markets have recently experienced significant disruption, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. moreover, many companies are experiencing reduced liquidity and uncertainty as to their ability to raise capital. in the event that these conditions persist or result in a prolonged economic downturn, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, as a result of recent financial events, we may face increased regulation. many of the risk factors that follow identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, financial disruption or a prolonged 48 table of contents economic downturn. these include risks discussed below related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation", particularly the "outlook" section. our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 94% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2008. changes in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting our net investment income. conversely, rising interest rates reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity investments. we invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, real estate partnerships, joint ventures, venture capital investments, directly owned real estate and trading securities, all of which are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses, as well as the level of returns available from such investments in the future. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, we may incur losses on sales of these investments and we may be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, our investment portfolio could be subject to higher risk. the value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities, and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations, during an economic downturn, our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. our portfolio has also benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income, and we could incur realized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. 49 table of contents we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. in particular in 2009, we expect there may be a significant capacity shortage with regard to catastrophe reinsurance, which could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance to us. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. the ability of reinsurers to transfer their risks to other, less creditworthy reinsurers may adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due to us. included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies have been negatively impacted by deteriorating financial and economic conditions, including unprecedented financial market disruption. a number of these companies, including those with which we conduct business, have been downgraded and/or have been placed on negative outlook by various rating agencies. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables discussed above, we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our customer. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the 50 table of contents claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. these loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, reviews of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. in establishing reserves, we also take into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. the process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in medical costs and auto and home repair costs; general economic conditions; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). the estimation of loss reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims. we continually refine our loss reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of 51 table of contents focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. asbestos claims. we believe that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. while we have experienced a decrease in asbestos claims over the past several years, we continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from our policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against our policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. in addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos-related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including us. bankruptcy proceedings have also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but who remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants previously considered peripheral, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we have experienced. in addition, our asbestos-related claims and claim adjustment expense experience is impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through the exhaustion of policy limits or insolvency. we continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. 52 table of contents to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholder. accordingly, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to us but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. there also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for us. as in the past, we will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. we anticipate the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. environmental claims. we continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla may be joint and several with other responsible parties. we have been, and continue to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. we believe that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by us prior to the mid-1980s. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and we do not track the monetary amounts being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. asbestos and environmental claims. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for these claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against us and future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation, including legislation related to 53 table of contents asbestos reform. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of large coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of our management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to: losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution or structuring; fraud, including those related to investment management businesses; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs and/or to abate hazards to public health and safety; and 54 table of contents medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. in particular, recent shifts in the political landscape could increase the likelihood of the passing of such legislation in a number of states. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, a number of which are experiencing financial difficulties. competitors that are experiencing financial difficulties may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us, as well as to our competitors. also, competitors that receive financial support from the federal government may have advantages that are not available to other market participants. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation outlook." our competitive position is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." the insurance industry and we are the subject of a number of investigations by state and federal authorities in the united states. we cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or the impact on our business practices or financial results. as part of industry-wide investigations, we have 55 table of contents received subpoenas and written requests for information from a number of government agencies and authorities, including, among others, state attorneys general, state insurance departments, the u.s. attorney for the southern district of new york and the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). the areas of pending inquiry addressed to us include our relationship with brokers and agents and our involvement with "non-traditional" insurance and reinsurance products. we may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these matters. for further information, see "item 3 legal proceedings". it would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters or the impact on our business or financial results. potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and/or changes in business practices that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, these investigations may result in changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could, in turn, also materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by governmental regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. this regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all fifty states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. this regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the national association of insurance commissioners (naic) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. in addition, congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the united states to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. in the future, additional federal regulation may be enacted which could impact the ways in which we conduct our business and could result in higher compliance costs. we cannot predict the effect any proposed or future legislation or naic initiatives may have on the conduct of our business or results of operations. although the united states federal government does not currently directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation (e.g., the repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. a number of proposals being considered by the u.s. congress, if they became law, would give the federal government an increased role in insurance regulation, including supervisory authority over the holding company. further, in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. for example, insurance regulators may 56 table of contents choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies review insurers' ratings periodically, and change their ratings criteria periodically, and therefore our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment impairments were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. for further discussion about our ratings, see, "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. our holding company relies on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration 57 table of contents with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of personal insurance products could reduce our future profitability. in personal insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. in august of 2008, for example, the michigan court of appeals ruled to allow state regulators to prohibit insurers from using customers' credit scores to determine home and auto insurance rates. laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability. we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in the united kingdom, canada and ireland. we have also started to explore opportunities in other countries, including in emerging markets such as india and china. while our business outside of the united states currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. in addition, some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. they also may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and 58 table of contents uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to, access one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. if sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. these increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. we outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. if we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. in addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the united states. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunity is consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of the acquisition exceed the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices; the increase in the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time, until stable trends reestablish themselves within the combined organization, as past trends (that were a function of past products, past claims handling procedures, past claims departments and past legal and other experts) may not repeat themselves; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; and the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees. there is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. also, the acquired business may not perform as projected, and any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize. 59 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2008. the company's 150 table of contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio as of december 31, 2008 and 2007 was $70.74 billion and $74.82 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. at december 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 5.5% and 6.5%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio at december 31, 2008 and 2007 included asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective market value of $206 million and $286 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.3% and 0.4% of the company's total fixed maturity investments, respectively). the disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage-backed securities provided the company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages at discounted prices. the company purchased $47 million and $89 million of such securities in 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2007, respectively. the company defines sub-prime mortgage-backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low fico scores, above-prime interest rates, high loan-to-value ratios or high debt-to-income ratios. alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government-sponsored entity's requirements for credit score but do not meet the government-sponsored entity's guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan-to-value ratios. the average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the company was "aa2" and "aaa" at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. approximately $81 million of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2008. the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio at december 31, 2008 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third-party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. the downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 99% were rated at a3 or above, and approximately 81% were rated at aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. if economic conditions continue to deteriorate and adversely impact the financial condition and/or revenues of states, municipalities and political subdivisions, the value of the company's holdings could be adversely impacted. however, the company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the company's ability and intent to hold the securities. the average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "aa3" at december 31, 2008. the average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "aa1" at december 31, 2008 with and without the third-party insurance and includes pre-funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third-party insurance. the primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities' duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. the company's tax-exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $38.79 billion and $38.55 billion at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. federal and/or state tax legislation could be 151 table of contents enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 8 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.9% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. no other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 2.2% of the company's invested assets at december 31, 2008 or 2007. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2008 compared to the year ended december 31, 2007. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio 152 table of contents durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2008 and 2007. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2008 and 2007 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.5 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of both december 31, 2008 and 2007. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. as a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the company's consolidated balance sheet, primarily claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the company's exposure to foreign currencies. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $386 million and $485 million at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 153 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, earthquakes, windstorms, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods and volcanic eruptions. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events) or a consequence of political instability. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes throughout the central and southeast united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of the united states and canada; wildfires, particularly in the southwest; floods in the united kingdom and ireland; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. some scientists believe that in recent years changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, other storms and fires) in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, in recent years hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced, thus expanding our overall hurricane exposure. it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to help manage certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. our expansion into new geographical areas as well as any changes in climate conditions could cause our data to be more limited and our catastrophe models to be even less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage such exposures. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. also, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment, changes in the general economic climate and/or social responsibilities. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting activities. 48 table of contents there are also risks that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested. although the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007 (the "act") provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. under this law, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. in addition, because this law is relatively new and its interpretation is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. it is also possible that future legislative action could change the act. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events or man-made events such as a terrorist attack including "unconventional" acts of terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. while the company seeks to manage its exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, there can be no assurance that the company would have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving so-called weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological means. during or following a period of financial market disruption or prolonged economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. in 2008 and 2009, worldwide financial markets experienced significant disruptions and the united states and many other economies experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. for example, the beginning of 2009 witnessed the steepest decline in gross domestic product in the united states since 1982, and unemployment, commercial bankruptcies and bank failures increased to levels not seen in decades. while economic conditions have recently improved, and u.s. gross domestic product experienced growth in the latter part of 2009, that trend may not continue and the u.s. economy may enter into a "double dip" recession. even if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time and other economic conditions, such as the residential and commercial real estate environment and employment rates, may continue to be 49 table of contents weak. in addition, some economists believe that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize financial markets and improve economic conditions could lead to an inflationary environment. furthermore, financial markets, while somewhat less volatile than in early 2009, may again experience significant disruption. if economic conditions remain weak or deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. many of the risk factors that follow identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, a prolonged economic slowdown or financial disruption. these include risks discussed below related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation", particularly the "outlook" section. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even after the end of an economic downturn or financial disruption. during or following a prolonged economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce exposure changes at renewal. they also could adversely impact audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations after policies are written, particularly in our business units within business insurance, which could adversely impact our written premiums. in addition, because earned premiums lag written premiums, our results can be adversely affected after general economic conditions have improved. in our investment portfolio, we hold a substantial amount of municipal securities and the issuers of many of these securities depend on tax revenues to make payments. because tax revenues (and thus the creditworthiness of municipal issuers) typically decline for a period of time when economic conditions worsen, our portfolio may be significantly and negatively impacted even after general economic conditions begin to improve. in addition, an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may, as we discuss below, adversely impact our loss costs and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of the financial market disruptions in 2008 and 2009, we may face increased regulation in 2010 or after, which is also discussed further below. our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 94% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2009. changes in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to higher risk of default. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. we invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships, all of which are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses, as well as the level of returns available from such investments in the future. as a result of these factors, 50 table of contents we may realize reduced returns on these investments, we may incur losses on sales of these investments and we may be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations, during or following an economic downturn, our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. the prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. in addition, some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund maturing municipal bonds. our portfolio has also benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. our investment portfolio includes residential mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, pass-through securities, and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate, real estate partnerships and mortgage loans, all of which could be adversely impacted by further declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income, and we could incur realized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. if actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. these loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, reviews of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. in establishing reserves, we also take into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. the process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in medical costs and auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs 51 table of contents for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). as discussed above, some economists believe that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize the economy could lead to an inflationary environment, which could in turn, lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail", such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. changes in the level of inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves, particularly for long tail lines of business. the estimation of loss reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims. we continually refine our loss reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. informed judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other company management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. asbestos claims. we believe that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. while we have experienced a decrease in new asbestos claims over the past several years, we continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from our policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against our policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. the focus on these defendants is 52 table of contents primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. in addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos-related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including us. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we have experienced. our asbestos-related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. we continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. accordingly, although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to us but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. there also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for us. as in the past, we will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. we anticipate the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. we believe we have meritorious defenses to these claims and have received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. environmental claims. we continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla may be joint and several with other responsible parties. 53 table of contents we have been, and continue to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. we believe that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by us prior to the mid-1980s. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and we do not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. asbestos and environmental claims. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued, the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against us, future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims and the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. in addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this development will be affected by future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of our management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. 54 table of contents because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to: losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution or structuring; fraud, including those related to investment management businesses; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs; abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. in particular, recent shifts in the political landscape could increase the likelihood of the passing of such legislation in a number of states. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, a number of which have experienced financial difficulties in recent periods. competitors that are experiencing financial difficulties may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the property and casualty insurance industry has historically been cyclical, with periods characterized by intense price competition and less restrictive underwriting standards followed by periods of higher premium rates and more selective underwriting standards. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us, as well as to our competitors. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer 55 table of contents demand for direct distribution channels. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation outlook." in recent years, many independent personal insurance agents have begun to utilize price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as "comparative raters," as a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. comparative raters also tend to put additional focus on price over other competitive criteria. additionally, there is potential for similar technology to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business. our competitive position is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. the ability of reinsurers to transfer their risks to other, less creditworthy reinsurers may adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due to us. included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. 56 table of contents many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies have been negatively impacted by financial markets disruption and the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009. a number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to mitigate such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral, which often is in the form of pledged securities, such as money market funds, or letters of credit provided by banks. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through 57 table of contents underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by governmental regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. this regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all fifty states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. this regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the national association of insurance commissioners (naic) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. for example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. although the u. s. federal government does not currently directly regulate the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, and especially after the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry, to establish a federal office of insurance or to allow an optional federal charter for insurance companies, similar to the option available to most banks. some legislative proposals currently being considered could, if enacted, give one or more federal regulators supervisory authority over a number of financial services companies, including insurance companies, viewed as systemically important. this authority could include the ability to impose prudential regulation and/or market conduct regulation. such proposals or other additional federal regulation, if adopted and applicable to us, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation. even if we are not subject to regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. further, a number of legislative proposals may impose assessments on property and casualty insurance companies and related entities to pay for the resolution of other financial institutions (such as banks) that have become insolvent. such costs could be material to us and difficult for us to estimate. other potential changes in federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. 58 table of contents state or federal insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies review insurers' ratings periodically, and change their ratings criteria periodically, and therefore our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment impairments were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. for further discussion about our ratings, see, "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. our holding company relies on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn, regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future shareholder dividends. disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new product distribution channels, including our current efforts to establish a direct-to-consumer platform in the personal insurance segment. our efforts with respect to these alternate distribution channels could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume of business generated from these sources. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our 59 table of contents agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. this includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: we may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or coverage terms. we may refine our underwriting processes. for example, in certain of our businesses in recent years, we have substantially increased the volume of business that flows through our automated underwriting and pricing systems. we may seek to expand distribution channels, such as our efforts to develop a direct-to-consumer platform in personal insurance. we may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. among other risks: demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. to the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. this, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins. to develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. if our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results could be materially and adversely affected. our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to 60 table of contents complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to, access one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. if sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. these increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. we outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. in addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the united states. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition exceed the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices; the uncertainty of an acquiree's reserve estimates; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact of an acquisition on our financial position and/or credit ratings. 61 table of contents there is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. also, the acquired business may not perform as projected, and any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize. we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in the united kingdom, canada and ireland. we have also started to explore opportunities in other countries, including in emerging markets such as india, china and brazil. while our business outside of the united states currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, ownership limits and other restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. in addition, some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. we could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially in key positions. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of personal insurance products could reduce our future profitability. in personal insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2009. the company's 155 table of contents market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2009 and 2008 was $74.97 billion and $70.74 billion, respectively, of which 88% and 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 5.8% and 5.5%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio at december 31, 2009 and 2008 included asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages with a collective fair value of $270 million and $206 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.4% and 0.3% of the company's total fixed maturity investments, respectively). the disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage-backed securities provided the company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages at discounted prices. the company purchased $74 million and $47 million of such securities in 2009 and 2008, respectively. the company defines sub-prime mortgage-backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low fico scores, above-prime interest rates, high loan-to-value ratios or high debt-to-income ratios. alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government-sponsored entity's requirements for credit score but do not meet the government-sponsored entity's guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan-to-value ratios. the average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the company was "a3" and "aa2" at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. approximately $114 million and $81 million of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime and alternative documentation mortgages were downgraded in 2009 and 2008, respectively. the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio at december 31, 2009 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third-party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. the downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. of the insured municipal bond portfolio, approximately 98% were rated at a3 or above, and approximately 80% were rated at aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. the company believes, based on current market conditions, that a further loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the company's ability and intent to hold the securities. the average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "aa3" at december 31, 2009. the average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "aa1" at december 31, 2009 with and without the third-party insurance and includes pre-funded and escrowed to maturity securities, as well as securities issued without third-party insurance. on april 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the united states were assigned a negative outlook by moody's investors service. notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations, during an economic downturn, the company's municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. the prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the company's municipal bond portfolio. in addition, some issuers have been unable or may be unwilling to increase tax revenue, or to reduce spending, to fund maturing municipal bonds. 156 table of contents the primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities' duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. the company's tax-exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $40.84 billion and $38.79 billion at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 8 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.5% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.1% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2009 and 2008. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2009 and 2008 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to the year ended december 31, 2008. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 157 table of contents for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2009 and 2008. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2009 and 2008 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.34 billion and $2.48 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $431 million and $386 million at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 158 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods and volcanic eruptions. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), explosions, infrastructure failures or a consequence of political instability. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes throughout the central and southeast united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of the united states; wildfires, particularly in the southwest; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom, canada and the republic of ireland, as well as to a variety of world-wide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. some scientists believe that in recent years changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, other storms and fires) in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, in recent years hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced, thus expanding our overall hurricane exposure. the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to help manage certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, our increased presence in certain geographic areas, such as in the midwest and western regions of the united states, and any changes in climate conditions could cause our data to be more limited and our catastrophe models to be even less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage such exposures. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. in addition, states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. also, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our 47 table of contents willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment, changes in the general economic climate and/or social responsibilities. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting activities. there are also risks that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007 (the act) provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. under this law, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.08 billion for 2011. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. it is also possible that future legislative action could change the act. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events or man-made events such as a terrorist attack, including "unconventional" acts of terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, while we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving so-called weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological means. during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. over the past three years, worldwide financial markets have experienced significant disruptions and the united states and many other economies experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments 48 table of contents and decreased economic activity. while economic conditions have recently improved, there is continued uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of any economic recovery. the trend may not continue. even if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time and other economic conditions, such as the residential and commercial real estate environment and employment rates, may continue to be weak. in addition, some economists believe that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize financial markets and improve economic conditions could lead to an inflationary environment. furthermore, financial markets may again experience significant disruption. if economic conditions remain weak or deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. several of the risk factors that follow identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, an economic slowdown or financial disruption. these include risks discussed below related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation", particularly the "outlook" section. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even after the end of an economic downturn or financial disruption. during or following an economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce (and historically have reduced) exposure changes at renewal. they also could adversely impact (and historically have adversely impacted) audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations after policies are written, particularly in our business units within business insurance, which could adversely impact our written premiums. in addition, because earned premiums lag written premiums, our results can be adversely affected after general economic conditions have improved. an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may also, as we discuss below, adversely impact our loss costs and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of the financial market disruptions over the past three years, we may, as discussed below, face increased regulation. if actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. these loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, reviews of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. in establishing reserves, we also take into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. the process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures on medical costs and auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting 49 table of contents lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). as discussed above, some economists believe that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize the economy could lead to an inflationary environment, which could in turn, lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail", such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. changes in the level of inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves, particularly for long tail lines of business. in addition, inflationary pressures in medical costs may be increased by the recent healthcare reform legislation. the estimation of loss reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims. we continually refine our loss reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of loss reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 94% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2010. changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments. after a period of historically low interest rates, long-term interest rates have recently risen somewhat. however, interest rates may remain at levels below historical averages, possibly for a prolonged period. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to higher 50 table of contents risk of default. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. we invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships, all of which are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, we may incur losses on sales of these investments and we may be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), during or following an economic downturn, our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. the prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008 has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. in addition, some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, or additional municipalities and political subdivisions, to file for bankruptcy protection or if there are judicial interpretations that, in a bankruptcy or other proceeding, lessen the value of structural protections. our portfolio has also benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. our investment portfolio includes residential mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, pass-through securities, and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate, real estate partnerships and mortgage loans, all of which could be adversely impacted by further declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. in addition, the potential for protracted disruption and/or suspension of foreclosure practices could also impact the returns on certain of these portfolios. 51 table of contents because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. asbestos claims. we believe that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. while we have experienced a decrease in new asbestos claims over the past several years, we continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from our policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy), including claims against our policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. in addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase the volatility of asbestos-related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including us. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we have experienced. our asbestos-related claims and claim adjustment expense experience also has been impacted by the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. we continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. accordingly, although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to us but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. there also may be instances where a court may not approve a proposed settlement, which may result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for us. as in the past, we will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. 52 table of contents we anticipate the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. we believe we have meritorious defenses to these claims and have received favorable rulings in certain jurisdictions. environmental claims. we continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla may be joint and several with other responsible parties. we have been, and continue to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. we believe that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by us prior to the mid-1980s. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and we do not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. asbestos and environmental claims. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants, a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued, the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against us, future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims and the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers. in addition, uncertainties arise from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 53 table of contents see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to: losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; fraud, including those related to investment management businesses; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs; abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. 54 table of contents in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, a number of which have experienced financial difficulties in recent periods. competitors that are experiencing financial difficulties may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the property and casualty insurance industry has historically been cyclical, with periods characterized by intense price competition and less restrictive underwriting standards followed by periods of higher premium rates and more selective underwriting standards. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation outlook." in recent years, many independent personal insurance agents have begun to utilize price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as "comparative raters," as a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. comparative raters also tend to put additional focus on price over other competitive criteria. additionally, there is potential for similar technology to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business. agents and brokers may also create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. our competitive position is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." 55 table of contents we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. the ability of reinsurers to transfer their risks to other, less creditworthy reinsurers may adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due to us. included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies were negatively impacted by the financial markets disruption and the economic downturn over the past three years. a number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by our customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations 56 table of contents are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities, such as money market funds, or letters of credit provided by banks. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by governmental regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all fifty states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the national association of insurance commissioners (naic) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws 57 table of contents and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. for example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. although the u.s. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, there have been proposals from time to time, including after the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, to impose federal regulation on the insurance industry. on july 21, 2010, the president signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act). among other things, the dodd-frank act establishes a federal insurance office within the u.s. department of the treasury. the federal insurance office initially has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, including conducting a study for submission to the u.s. congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the u.s. further, the dodd-frank act gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of financial services companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the council) as "systemically important." while we do not believe that we are "systemically important," as defined in the dodd-frank act, it is possible that the council may conclude that we are. if we were designated as "systemically important," the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to smaller insurers who may not be subject to the same level of regulation. even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. in particular, the dodd-frank act authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are currently difficult for us to estimate. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, may be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. as a u.s.-based sec reporting company, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board (fasb). the sec is currently examining whether to require the use of international financial reporting standards (ifrs), as promulgated by the international accounting standards board (iasb), for companies such as us. the fasb and the iasb have also embarked on a long-term project to converge gaap and ifrs. additionally, the iasb and the fasb are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current gaap. we are not able to predict whether we will choose to, or be required to, 58 table of contents adopt ifrs or how the adoption of ifrs (or the convergence of gaap and ifrs, including the project for valuing insurance contract liabilities) may impact our financial statements in the future. changes in accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to insurance company operations, may impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could have adverse consequences to our reported financial results, including lower reported results of operations and shareholders' equity and increased volatility and decreased comparability of our reported results with other insurers. the european union's executive body, the european commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii that would apply to our businesses across the european union beginning as soon as the fourth quarter of 2012. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. company is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where we have operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (and in the u.s., with the national association of insurance commissioners) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including solvency requirements and group supervision. while it is not yet known how these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in a need for additional capital, increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management. u.s. or non-u.s. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies review insurers' ratings periodically, and change their ratings criteria periodically, and therefore our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. for further discussion about our ratings, see, "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. 59 table of contents we are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new product distribution channels, including our current efforts to establish a direct-to-consumer platform in the personal insurance segment. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. our or their efforts with respect to alternate distribution channels could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume of business generated from these sources. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. this includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: we may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or coverage terms. we may refine our underwriting processes. for example, in certain of our businesses in recent years, we have substantially increased the volume of business that flows through our automated underwriting and pricing systems. we may seek to expand distribution channels, such as our efforts to develop a direct-to-consumer platform in personal insurance. we may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. among other risks: demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. to the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as 60 table of contents sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. this, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins. to develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. if our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our net deferred tax assets could be adversely affected by a reduction in the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate. federal tax legislation could be enacted to reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35%, which would, accordingly, reduce our net deferred tax asset. the amount of our net deferred tax assets is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses in our investment portfolio. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, therefore, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models are inaccurate. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we also use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these models incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of: interest rates, inflation, capital requirements, and frequency and severity of losses, among others, that are difficult to make and may be materially wrong. future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. further, as we expand into different markets and geographies, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets and geographies, and, accordingly, we may be more susceptible to error in our models and strategy. we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in the united kingdom, canada and the republic of ireland. in addition, we entered into an agreement to commence a joint venture in brazil and may 61 table of contents also explore opportunities in other countries, including other emerging markets such as india and china. while our business outside of the united states currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our investments outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk, and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment. investments outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. for example, in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities; a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, or due to a computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for 62 table of contents our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address such a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. these increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. we outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. in addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the united states. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition exceed the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices; the uncertainty of an acquiree's reserve estimates; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact of an acquisition on our financial position and/or credit ratings. the acquired business may not perform as projected, and any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize. there is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. 63 table of contents we could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially in key positions. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of personal insurance products could reduce our future profitability. in personal insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2010. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2010 and 2009 was $72.72 billion and $74.97 billion, respectively, of which 86% and 88% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 6.0% and 5.8%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities' duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio included collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages with a collective fair value of $297 million and $270 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.5% and 0.4% of the company's total fixed maturity investments, respectively). the disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage-backed securities provided the company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional 148 table of contents asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages at discounted prices. the company purchased $31 million and $74 million of such securities in 2010 and 2009, respectively. the company defines sub-prime mortgage-backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low fico scores, above-prime interest rates, high loan-to-value ratios or high debt-to-income ratios. alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government-sponsored entities' requirements for credit score but do not meet the government-sponsored entities' guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan-to-value ratios. the average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the company was "baa2" and "a3" at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio at december 31, 2010 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third-party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. the downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities in recent years has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. of the insured municipal securities in the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2010, approximately 99% were rated at a3 or above, and approximately 90% were rated at aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. the company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the company's ability and intent to hold the securities. the average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "aa2" at december 31, 2010. the average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "aa1" at december 31, 2010 with and without the third-party insurance. on april 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the united states were assigned a negative outlook by moody's investors service. notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that the company typically seeks to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), during or following an economic downturn, the company's municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. the severity and duration of state and local government budget deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the company's municipal bond portfolio. in addition, some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, or additional municipalities and political subdivisions, to file for bankruptcy protection or if there are judicial interpretations that, in a bankruptcy or other proceeding, lessen the value of structural protections. the company's tax-exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio totaled $39.03 billion and $40.84 billion at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 8 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." 149 table of contents the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.5% of the total invested assets at both december 31, 2010 and 2009. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.1% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2010 and 2009 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to the year ended december 31, 2009. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2010 and 2009. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2010 and 2009 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. 150 table of contents the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.00 billion and $2.34 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $434 million and $431 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. at december 31, 2010, the company had a definitive agreement to commence a joint venture with j. malucelli, through the acquisition of approximately 43% of j. malucelli's common stock. the purchase price for this acquisition will be r$625 million brazilian reais (the u.s. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a brazilian inter-bank lending rate (cdi) from january 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. in order to reduce its exposure to a significant strengthening of the brazilian reais prior to the closing of the transaction, the company entered into a foreign currency option contract on february 7, 2011 in the notional amount of r$635 million which expires on march 31, 2011. 151 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods and volcanic eruptions. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), explosions, infrastructure failures or a consequence of political instability. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes throughout the central, mid-atlantic and southeastern regions of the united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in the southwest; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom, canada and the republic of ireland, as well as to a variety of world-wide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. some scientists believe that in recent years changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, in recent years hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced, thus expanding our overall hurricane exposure. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornadoes and hail storms have increased, especially in 2011. all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to help manage certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes and earthquakes, models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer, less reliable (given the even greater difficulty of predicting the risks), not as extensively tested and used on a much more limited basis by us and the industry. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. in addition, states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in 47 table of contents those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies or seek to prevent the application of deductibles. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment, changes in the general economic climate and/or social responsibilities. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting activities. there are also risks that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program (the program) provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. under this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.17 billion for 2012. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. it is also possible that future legislative action could change the program. the program is due to expire at the end of 2014, unless extended. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events or man-made events such as a terrorist attack, including "unconventional" acts of terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, while we seek to manage our exposure to 48 table of contents man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological means. during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. over the past several years, worldwide financial markets have experienced significant disruptions and, during a portion of this period, the united states and many other economies experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. while economic conditions have generally moderated, financial markets continue to experience periodic disruptions, and there is continued uncertainty regarding the duration and strength of any economic recovery. even if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time, and other economic conditions, such as the residential and commercial real estate environment and employment rates, may continue to be weak. in addition, while inflation has recently been limited and that trend may continue, it is possible that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize financial markets and improve economic conditions could lead to an inflationary environment. furthermore, financial markets may again experience significant and prolonged disruption. economic uncertainty has recently been exacerbated by the increased potential for default by one or more european sovereign debt issuers, the potential partial or complete dissolution of the eurozone and its common currency and the negative impact of such events on global financial institutions and capital markets generally. actions or inactions of european governments may impact these actual or perceived risks. in the u.s. during 2011, one rating agency downgraded the u.s.'s long-term debt credit rating from aaa. future actions or inactions of the united states government, including a shutdown of the federal government, could increase the actual or perceived risk that the u.s. may not ultimately pay its obligations when due and may disrupt financial markets. if economic conditions remain weak or deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. several of the risk factors discussed below identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, an economic slowdown or financial disruption. these include risks discussed below related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation", particularly the "outlook" section. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even after the end of an economic downturn or financial disruption. during or following an economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce (and historically have reduced) exposure changes at renewal. they also could adversely impact (and historically have adversely impacted) audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations after policies are written, particularly in our business units within business insurance, which could adversely impact our written premiums. in addition, because earned premiums lag written premiums, our results can be adversely affected after general economic conditions have improved. an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may also, as we discuss below, adversely impact our loss costs and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of the financial market disruptions over the past several years, we may, as discussed below, face increased regulation. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not 49 table of contents represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures on medical costs and auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). as discussed above, it is possible that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize the economy could lead to an inflationary environment, which could in turn, lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail", such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. changes in the level of inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, particularly for long tail lines of business. in addition, inflationary pressures in medical costs may be increased by the healthcare reform legislation. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. we continually refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. 50 table of contents for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 93% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2011. changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments. interest rates in recent periods have been at or near historically low levels, and it is possible that rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: the prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008, and the limited economic recovery, has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, in a recent municipal bankruptcy proceeding the debtor challenged the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue. our portfolio has also benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). 51 table of contents federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate, real estate partnerships and mortgage loans, all of which could be adversely impacted by further declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. in addition, the potential for protracted disruption and/or suspension of foreclosure practices could also impact the returns on certain of these portfolios. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships, all of which are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from policyholders (including others seeking coverage under a policy). factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has prompted plaintiffs to aggressively seek out potential new defendants and has caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but who remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments experienced by us. we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not 52 table of contents successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. accordingly, although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to asbestos claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. the company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. 53 table of contents it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; failed financial institutions; fraud, including 54 table of contents those related to investment management businesses; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; claims relating to molestation by an employee of an insured; medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions, including higher frequency and severity of weather-related events. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation outlook." a substantial majority of the company's personal insurance business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative raters, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. the usage of comparative raters tends to increase the focus on price over other competitive criteria. over time, this increased focus on price may provide a relative advantage to carriers that have more efficient cost structures and that are better able to accurately estimate, and price for, claims and claim adjustment expenses. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, there is potential for similar technology to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business. agents and brokers may also create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. our competitive position is based on many factors including but not limited to our: ability to retain existing customers, to obtain new business and to profitably price our business; agent, broker and client relationships; speed of claims payment; 55 table of contents premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; local presence; and ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments if and to the extent not paid by state guaranty associations. many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies were negatively impacted by the financial markets disruption and the economic downturn over the past several years. a number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant 56 table of contents reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. if a customer of ours defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 57 table of contents within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, policyholders' surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. for example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, may be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. state regulations or laws that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results. while the u.s. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, in 2010 the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office within the u.s. department of the treasury. the federal insurance office has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, including conducting a study for submission to the u.s. congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the u.s. further, the dodd-frank act gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of nonbank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the council) as "systemically important financial institutions" (sifi). while recent rules proposed by the council support our view that we will not be designated as a sifi as defined in the dodd-frank act, it is possible that the council may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as "systemically important," the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to smaller insurers that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. 58 table of contents even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. in particular, the dodd-frank act authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies review insurers' ratings periodically, and change their ratings criteria periodically, and therefore our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. for further discussion about our ratings, see, "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an 59 table of contents important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with and fees paid to some agents and brokers. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new product distribution channels, including our current efforts to establish a direct-to-consumer platform in the personal insurance segment. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. our or their efforts with respect to alternate distribution channels could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume of business generated from these sources. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see "if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted" below. our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. this includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: we may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or coverage terms. we may refine our underwriting processes. for example, in certain of our businesses in recent years, we have substantially increased the volume of business that flows through our automated underwriting and pricing systems. we may seek to expand distribution channels, such as our efforts to develop a direct-to-consumer platform in personal insurance. we may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. among other risks: demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. to the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. this, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." 60 table of contents in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins. to develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. if our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. any net deferred tax asset could be adversely affected by a reduction in the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate. federal tax legislation could be enacted to reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35%, which would, accordingly, reduce any net deferred tax asset. the amount of any net deferred tax asset is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, therefore, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize third-party and proprietary models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry data and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of: interest rates, inflation, capital requirements, and frequency and severity of losses, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third-party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. as we expand into different markets and geographies, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets and geographies, and, accordingly, we may be more susceptible to error in our models and strategy. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." third party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. for example, during the first quarter of 2011, a new version of a third-party computer model utilized by us, as well as others in the insurance industry, to estimate potential aggregate hurricane losses was released. after evaluating multiple models and calibrating our own historical loss experience and underwriting practices, we increased our estimated modeled loss, using our own proprietary modeling processes, from a single u.s. hurricane by a range of 10% to 24%. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." third-party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially 61 table of contents different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third-party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. these assumptions and forecasts may be difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in the united kingdom, canada and the republic of ireland. in addition, we have commenced a joint venture in brazil and may also explore opportunities in other countries, including latin american countries and other emerging markets such as india and china. while our business outside of the united states currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our investments outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment. investments outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. for example, in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. new regulations outside of the u.s., including in the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii that would apply to our businesses in the european union beginning as soon as the first quarter of 2013. under solvency ii, it is possible that the direct or indirect parent of a european union subsidiary (including a u.s. parent company) could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on an affiliated or parent company and the affiliated or parent company is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where we have operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and in the u.s., with the naic) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision. while it is not yet known how these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management. 62 table of contents the iais is also working with the financial stability board created by the g-20 and is expected to recommend a methodology for determining whether and which, if any, insurance companies pose a systemic risk to the global economy. such insurers would be designated "globally systemically important financial institutions" (g-sifis) and would likely be subject to higher capital requirements, enhanced supervision or both. the iais has not yet decided upon the criteria for or the consequences of such designation. our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities; a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, or due to a computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address such a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber attacks or other disruptions. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. these increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. 63 table of contents we have increasingly outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may continue to do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security or service disruptions, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. in addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the united states. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition exceed the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices; the uncertainty of an acquiree's reserve estimates; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact of an acquisition on our financial position and/or credit ratings. the acquired business may not perform as projected, and any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize. there is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. changes to existing accounting standards may adversely impact our reported results. as a u.s.-based sec reporting company, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board (fasb). during the last several years, the securities and exchange commission (sec) has been evaluating whether, when and how international financial reporting standards (ifrs) should be incorporated into the u.s. financial reporting system, including for companies such as us. the fasb and the iasb have also embarked on a long-term project to converge gaap and ifrs. additionally, the iasb and the fasb are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current gaap. we are not able to predict whether we will choose to, or be required to, adopt ifrs or how the adoption of ifrs (or the convergence of gaap and ifrs, including the project for valuing insurance contract liabilities) may impact our financial statements in the future. changes in accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to insurance company operations, may impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could have adverse consequences to our reported financial results, including lower reported results of operations and shareholders' equity and increased volatility and decreased comparability of our reported results with other insurers. 64 table of contents we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially in key positions. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of personal insurance products could reduce our future profitability. in personal insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2011. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. 153 table of contents the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2011 and 2010 was $72.70 billion and $72.72 billion, respectively, of which 88% and 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 6.2% and 6.0%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities' duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio included collateralized mortgage obligations backed by alternative documentation mortgages and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages with a collective fair value of $351 million and $297 million, respectively (comprising approximately 0.5% of the company's total fixed maturity investments at both dates). the disruption in secondary investment markets for mortgage-backed securities provided the company with the opportunity to selectively acquire additional asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages at discounted prices. the company purchased $128 million and $31 million of such securities in 2011 and 2010, respectively. the company defines sub-prime mortgage-backed securities as investments in which the underlying loans primarily exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: low fico scores, above-prime interest rates, high loan-to-value ratios or high debt-to-income ratios. alternative documentation securitizations are those in which the underlying loans primarily meet the government-sponsored entities' requirements for credit score but do not meet the government-sponsored entities' guidelines for documentation, property type, debt and loan-to-value ratios. the average credit rating on these securities and obligations held by the company was "baa2" at both december 31, 2011 and 2010. the company's fixed maturity investment portfolio at december 31, 2011 included securities issued by numerous states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio), a number of which were enhanced by third-party insurance for the payment of principal and interest in the event of an issuer default. the downgrade of credit ratings of insurers of these securities in recent years has resulted in a corresponding downgrade in the ratings of the securities to the underlying rating of the respective security. of the insured municipal securities in the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2011, approximately 99% were rated at a3 or above, and approximately 92% were rated at aa3 or above, without the benefit of insurance. the company believes that a loss of the benefit of insurance would not result in a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity, due to the underlying credit strength of the issuers of the securities, as well as the company's ability and intent to hold the securities. the average credit rating of the underlying issuers of these securities was "aa2" at december 31, 2011. the average credit rating of the entire municipal bond portfolio was "aa1" at december 31, 2011 with and without the third-party insurance. on april 2, 2009, municipal securities issued by local governments within the united states were assigned a negative outlook by moody's investors service. notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that the company typically seeks to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), during or following an economic downturn, the company's municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. the severity and duration of state and local government budget deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of the company's municipal bond portfolio. in addition, some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if 154 table of contents some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, or additional municipalities and political subdivisions, to file for bankruptcy protection or if there are judicial interpretations that, in a bankruptcy or other proceeding, lessen the value of structural protections. the company's tax-exempt fixed maturity investment portfolio was $38.52 billion and $39.03 billion at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or improve some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the company and result in an adverse or favorable impact on the value of these holdings. the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 8 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.4% and 2.5% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.4% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2011 and 2010 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to the year ended december 31, 2010. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various 155 table of contents basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2011 and 2010. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2011 and 2010 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $1.79 billion and $2.00 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $452 million and $434 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 156 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis and volcanic eruptions. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), explosions, infrastructure failures or a consequence of political instability. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes throughout the central, mid-atlantic and southeastern regions of the united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in the southwest; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom, canada and the republic of ireland, as well as to a variety of world-wide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations, and in brazil through our joint venture investment. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. moreover, we could experience more than one highly severe catastrophic event in any given period. some scientists believe that in recent years changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, in recent years hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced, thus expanding our overall hurricane exposure. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornadoes and hail storms have increased in recent years. 47 table of contents all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to help manage certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer and may be even less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. as a result, models for earthquakes and especially for tornado and hail storms may have even greater difficulty predicting risks and estimating losses. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies or seek to prevent the application of deductibles. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment, changes in the general economic climate and/or social responsibilities. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting activities. there are also factors that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. in recent years, increased late reporting of weather-related losses by claimants, particularly losses from hail damage, has led to higher costs than we previously expected. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for that reporting period. the 48 table of contents estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program (the program) provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. under this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.26 billion for 2013. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. it is also possible that future legislative action could change the program. the program is due to expire at the end of 2014, unless extended. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events or man-made events such as a terrorist attack, including "unconventional" acts of terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, while we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological means. during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. over the past six years, worldwide financial markets have experienced significant disruptions and, during a portion of this period, the united states and many other economies experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. while economic conditions have generally stabilized, there is continued uncertainty regarding the duration and strength of any economic recovery. even if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time, and other economic conditions, such as the residential and commercial real estate environment and employment rates, may continue to be weak. in addition, while inflation has recently been limited and that trend may continue, it is possible that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize financial markets and improve economic conditions could lead to an inflationary environment. furthermore, financial markets may again experience significant and prolonged disruption. economic uncertainty has been exacerbated in recent years by the increased potential for default by one or more european sovereign debt issuers, the potential partial or complete dissolution of the eurozone and its common currency and the negative impact of such events on global financial institutions and capital markets generally. actions or inactions of european governments may impact these actual or perceived risks. in the u.s. during 2011, one rating agency downgraded the u.s.'s 49 table of contents long-term debt credit rating from aaa. future actions or inactions of the united states government, including a failure to increase the government debt limit or a shutdown of the federal government, could increase the actual or perceived risk that the u.s. may not ultimately pay its obligations when due and may disrupt financial markets, including capital markets. further, general uncertainty regarding the u.s. federal budget and taxes has added to the uncertainty regarding economic conditions generally. if economic conditions remain weak or deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. several of the risk factors discussed below identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, an economic slowdown or financial disruption. these include risks discussed below related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation", particularly the "outlook" section. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even after the end of an economic downturn or financial disruption. during or following an economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce (and historically have reduced) exposure changes at renewal. they also could adversely impact (and historically have adversely impacted) audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations after policies are written, particularly in our business units within business insurance, which could adversely impact our written premiums. in addition, because earned premiums lag written premiums, our results can be adversely affected after general economic conditions have improved. an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may also, as we discuss below, adversely impact our loss costs and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of financial market disruption, we may, as discussed below, face increased regulation. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures on medical costs and auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). as discussed above, it is possible that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize the economy could lead to an inflationary environment, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail", such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. in addition, inflationary pressures in medical costs 50 table of contents may be increased by the healthcare reform legislation. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. we continually refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 93% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2012. changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments. interest rates in recent periods have been at or near historically low levels, and it is possible that rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default. 51 table of contents our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: the prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008, and the limited economic recovery that has followed, has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue. the collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. our portfolio has also benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. see "changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us" below. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate, real estate partnerships and mortgage loans, all of which could be adversely impacted by further declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. in addition, the potential for protracted disruption and/or suspension of foreclosure practices could also impact the returns on certain of these portfolios. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships. from time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including commodities. all of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. 52 table of contents our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. given that economic and market conditions are highly uncertain, we may, depending on circumstances in the future, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio. these changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we have received and continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from policyholders (including others seeking coverage under a policy). factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has prompted plaintiffs to aggressively seek out potential new defendants and has caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but who remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments experienced by us. we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. accordingly, although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to asbestos claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we have received and continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory 53 table of contents efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. the company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." 54 table of contents we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; failed financial institutions; fraud, including those related to investment management businesses; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; claims relating to molestation by an employee of an insured; medical developments that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative trauma), resulting in liability or workers' compensation claims; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions, including higher frequency and severity of weather-related events. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. 55 table of contents in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation outlook." in personal insurance, the use of comparative rating technologies has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business as well as the industry as a whole. a substantial amount of the company's personal insurance new business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative rating technologies, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. because the use of this technology, whether by agents or directly by customers, facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. it also has resulted in an increase in the level of quote activity and a lower percentage of quotes that result in new business from customers, and these trends may continue or accelerate. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, there is potential for similar technology to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business. agents, brokers or other third parties may also create alternate distribution channels for personal or commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. other technological changes may present competitive risks. for example, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and may become an increasingly important competitive factor. other potential technological changes, such as driverless cars, could disrupt the demand for our products from current customers, and we may not be able to respond effectively. in addition, our competitive position could be impacted by our ability to deploy, in a cost effective manner, technology that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called "big data" analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions. see also "our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology" below. in recent years, we have undertaken various actions to improve our underwriting margins on many of our insurance products, and competitive dynamics may impact the success of these efforts. these efforts include seeking improved rates, as well as improved terms and conditions, and also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs. these efforts may not be successful and/or may result in lower retention and new business levels and therefore lower business volumes. in addition, if our underwriting is not effective, efforts to increase rates could also lead to "adverse selection", whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost. for more detail, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation outlook. 56 table of contents in particular, in our agency automobile line of business, we have undertaken various actions to improve our underwriting margins, which have been negatively impacted by various factors. these factors include (i) changes in customer preferences and demand for direct distribution channels, (ii) utilization of comparative rating technologies by agents, (iii) other technological changes, as described above, and (iv) loss cost increases that have exceeded earned rate increases. if our strategies to increase profitability through the actions described above are not effective, we may need to explore other actions or initiatives to improve our competitive position and profitability in this line of business. overall, our competitive position in our various businesses is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to profitably price our business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and client relationships; ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems; speed of claims payment; ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. structured settlements comprise annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant 57 table of contents portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments if and to the extent not paid by state guaranty associations. many reinsurance companies and life insurance companies were negatively impacted by the financial markets disruption and the economic downturn over the past several years. a number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business or to which we otherwise have credit exposure, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. if a customer of ours defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. 58 table of contents in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, policyholders' surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. for example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, may be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. state laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results. while the u.s. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, in 2010 the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office within the u.s. department of the treasury. the federal insurance office has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, including conducting a study for submission to the u.s. congress on how to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the u.s. further, the dodd-frank act gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of nonbank financial services 59 table of contents holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the council) as "systemically important financial institutions" (sifi). based on rules and interpretive guidance adopted by the council, we do not expect that we will be designated as a sifi. nonetheless, it is possible that the council may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as "systemically important," the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other insurers that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. in particular, the dodd-frank act authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation) and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies periodically review insurers' ratings and change their ratings criteria; therefore, our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. see also "during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected." for further discussion about our ratings, see, "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to 60 table of contents our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with and fees paid to some agents and brokers. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new product distribution channels, including our current efforts to establish a direct-to-consumer platform in the personal insurance segment. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. our efforts or their efforts with respect to alternate distribution channels could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume of business generated from these sources. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see "if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted" below. our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. this includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: we may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or coverage terms. we may refine our underwriting processes. for example, in certain of our businesses in recent years, we have substantially increased the volume of business that flows through our automated underwriting and pricing systems. we may seek to expand distribution channels, such as our efforts to develop a direct-to-consumer platform in personal insurance. 61 table of contents we may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. among other risks: demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. to the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. this, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins. to develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. if our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us. tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us. for example, federal tax legislation could be enacted to reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35%, which would, accordingly, reduce any u.s. deferred tax asset. the amount of any net deferred tax asset is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, along with other changes in the tax rules that may increase the company's actual tax expense, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our investment portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, such legislation could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, particularly changes to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (which comprise 52% of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2012) could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds. other tax law changes could adversely impact us. the size of the federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use 62 table of contents in pricing our policies. we utilize third-party and proprietary models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry data and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of: interest rates, inflation, capital requirements, and frequency and severity of losses, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third-party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. third party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. as a result, third-party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third-party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. as we expand into different markets and geographies, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets and geographies, and, accordingly, we may be more susceptible to error in our models and strategy. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more 63 table of contents of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis, particularly if such an interruption lasts for an extended period of time. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, or due to a computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address such a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. our computer systems have been and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material breach of cyber security, administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. in addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risks of cyber-attacks. we may forego the implementation of such new technology to limit this additional risk. these increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. we have increasingly outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may continue to do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security or service disruptions, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. in addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the united states. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. 64 table of contents we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in the united kingdom, canada and the republic of ireland. in addition, we have a joint venture in brazil and may also explore opportunities in other countries, including latin american countries and other emerging markets such as india and china. while our business outside of the united states currently constitutes a relatively small portion of our revenues, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our investments outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment. investments outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. for example, in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. new regulations outside of the u.s., including in the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii that would apply to our businesses in the european union beginning as soon as january 1, 2014; however, the effective implementation date may be delayed. under solvency ii, it is possible that the direct or indirect parent of a european union subsidiary (including a u.s. parent company) could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on an affiliated or parent company and the affiliated or parent company is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where we have operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and in the u.s., with the naic) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision. the iais is working with the financial stability board (fsb) created by the g-20 and is developing a methodology for determining whether and which, if any, insurance companies pose a systemic risk to the global economy. such insurers would be designated "global systemically important insurers" (g-siis) and would likely be subject to higher capital requirements, enhanced supervision or both. the iais has released for comment proposed methodology for identifying potential g-siis but has not yet decided upon the criteria for, or the consequences of, such designation. upon finalizing the 65 table of contents assessment methodology and determining the consequences of a g-sii designation, the fsb along with national authorities expect to publish the list of g-siis in april 2013. while it is not yet known how these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition justify the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices; the uncertainty of an acquiree's reserve estimates; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact of an acquisition on our financial position and/or credit ratings. the acquired business may not perform as projected, and any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize. there is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. changes to existing accounting standards may adversely impact our reported results. as a u.s.-based sec reporting company, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board (fasb). during the last several years, the securities and exchange commission (sec) has been evaluating whether, when and how international financial reporting standards (ifrs) should be incorporated into the u.s. financial reporting system, including for companies such as us. the fasb and the international accounting standards board (iasb) have also embarked on a long-term project to converge gaap and ifrs. additionally, the iasb and the fasb are in the process of developing a global insurance standard that may involve methodologies for valuing insurance contract liabilities that may be significantly different from the methodologies required by current gaap. in june 2012, the fasb issued a statement that indicated that based on the nature and totality of differences between the fasb's and iasb's views, it is not likely that the two boards will achieve convergence on this project. the fasb further noted that the fasb and iasb have very different perspectives on the project, given that the u.s. has existing guidance on insurance contracts whereas there is currently no comprehensive ifrs insurance standard for insurance contracts. as a result of this, it is currently unclear what changes, if any, may be made to the accounting for insurance contracts under gaap as a result of this project, and we are not able to predict whether we will choose to, or be required to, adopt ifrs or how the adoption of ifrs (or the convergence of gaap and ifrs, including the project for valuing insurance contract liabilities) may impact our financial statements in the future. changes in accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to insurance company operations, may impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could have adverse consequences to our reported financial results, including lower reported results of operations and shareholders' equity and increased volatility and decreased comparability of our reported results with other insurers. 66 table of contents we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. in addition, ineffective controls could lead to litigation or regulatory action. the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against various types of financial institutions have increased in recent years following the recent economic downturn and market disruption. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse financial impact. see note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized underwriting knowledge. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals, including our senior executives, many of whom have decades of experience in the insurance industry. see "item 10 directors, executive officers and corporate governance" for more information relating to our executive officers. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. loss of or significant restriction on the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of personal insurance products could reduce our future profitability. in personal insurance, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could adversely affect our future profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2012. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2012 and 2011 was $73.84 billion and $72.70 billion, respectively, of which 89% and 88% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at both december 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 6.2% of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities' duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. for additional information regarding the company's investments, see notes 3 and 4 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "investment portfolio" and "outlook" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." 154 table of contents the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 8 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets, insurance reserves and shareholders' equity denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.4% of the total invested assets at both december 31, 2012 and 2011. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 2.3% and 2.4% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2012 and 2011 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2012 and 2011. 155 table of contents for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2012 and 2011 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $1.64 billion and $1.79 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $459 million and $452 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 156 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis and volcanic eruptions. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), explosions, infrastructure failures or a consequence of political instability. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes throughout the central, mid-atlantic and southeastern regions of the united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in the southwest; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in canada, the united kingdom and the republic of ireland, as well as to a variety of world-wide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations, and in brazil through our joint venture investment. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. severe weather events over the last several years have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends, and potentially changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, over the last decade, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced, thus expanding the company's potential for losses from hurricanes. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornado and hail storms in the united states have been greater in recent years. moreover, we could experience more than one highly severe catastrophic event in any given period. all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to help manage certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer and may be even less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. as a result, models for earthquakes and especially for tornado and hail storms may have even greater difficulty predicting risks and estimating losses. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. 51 table of contents states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies or seek to prevent the application of deductibles. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also factors that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. in recent years, increased late reporting of weather-related losses by claimants, particularly losses from hail damage, has led to higher costs than we previously expected. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted in subsequent periods as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. under this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which 52 table of contents exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.35 billion for 2014. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. the program is due to expire at the end of 2014; however, legislation to extend the program has been introduced in congress. it is possible that congress could decide not to renew the program or could otherwise modify or eliminate the program, which could adversely affect our business by increasing our exposure to terrorism losses, or by lowering our business volume through efforts to avoid that exposure. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events or man-made events such as a terrorist attack, including "unconventional" acts of terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising from a high frequency of high severity natural catastrophes and/or of man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means. in addition, while we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological means. during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. over the past seven years and particularly during the financial crisis, worldwide financial markets have experienced significant disruption. during a portion of this period, the united states and many other economies experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of certain investments and decreased economic activity. while economic conditions have generally stabilized and improved, there is continued uncertainty regarding the duration and strength of the economic recovery. even if growth continues, it may be at a slow rate for an extended period of time, and other economic conditions, such as employment rates, may continue to be weak. furthermore, financial markets may again experience significant and prolonged disruption. in recent years, the federal government, particularly the federal reserve, has taken extraordinary steps to stabilize financial markets, encourage economic growth and keep interest rates low. while inflation has recently been limited and that trend may continue, it is possible that the steps taken by the federal government to stabilize financial markets and improve economic conditions could lead to an inflationary environment. further, such steps may be ineffective and, in the case of the federal reserve, actual or anticipated efforts to continue to unwind some of such steps (including the so-called "tapering" of quantitative easing) could disrupt financial markets and/or could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio or general economic conditions. economic uncertainty has been exacerbated in recent years by the increased potential for default by one or more european sovereign debt issuers, the potential partial or complete dissolution of the eurozone and its common currency and the negative impact of such events on global financial institutions and capital markets generally. actions or inactions of european governments may impact these actual or perceived risks. in the u.s. during 2011, one rating agency downgraded the u.s.'s long-term debt credit rating from aaa. future actions or inactions of the united states government, including a failure to increase the government debt limit or a shutdown of the federal government, could increase the actual or perceived risk that the u.s. may not ultimately pay its obligations when due and may disrupt financial markets, including capital markets. further, issues related to the u.s. federal budget and taxes, implementation of the affordable care act and the regulatory environment have added to the uncertainty regarding economic conditions generally. if economic conditions deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. several of the risk factors discussed below identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, an economic 53 table of contents slowdown or financial disruption. these include risks discussed below related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations", particularly the "outlook" section. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even after the end of an economic downturn or financial disruption. during or following an economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce (and historically have reduced) exposure changes at renewal. they also could adversely impact (and historically have adversely impacted) audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations after policies are written, particularly in our business units within business insurance, which could adversely impact our written premiums. in addition, because earned premiums lag written premiums, our results can be adversely affected after general economic conditions have improved. an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may also, as we discuss below, adversely impact our loss costs and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of financial market disruption, we may, as discussed below, face increased regulation. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures on medical costs and auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). as discussed above, it is possible that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize the economy could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail", such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. in addition, inflationary pressures in medical costs may be increased by the healthcare reform legislation and its implementation. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. we continually refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the 54 table of contents process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 93% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2013. changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value. during 2013, the net unrealized gain in our fixed income portfolio declined from $4.56 billion to $1.76 billion as interest rates increased. it is possible that further increases in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) could result in further declines in that unrealized gain position or even result in an unrealized loss, thereby adversely impacting our book value. notwithstanding increases in interest rates in 2013, interest rates in recent years have been and remain at very low levels relative to historical experience, and it is possible that rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is also subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and 55 table of contents notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: the prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008, and the limited economic recovery that has followed, has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations and other postretirement obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue. the collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. a substantial portion of our fixed maturity portfolio will mature within the next few years. approximately 40% of the fixed maturity portfolio is expected to mature over the next three years (this includes the early redemption of bonds, assuming interest rates (including credit spreads) do not rise significantly by applicable call dates). for a schedule of the contractual maturities of our fixed maturity portfolio by year for the next several years, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investment portfolio." of that maturing portfolio, a substantial amount includes municipal bonds that have been pre-refunded with u.s. treasury securities. as a result, even if our investment strategy does not significantly change over the next few years, the overall yield on and composition of our portfolio could be meaningfully impacted by the types of investments available for reinvestment with the proceeds of matured bonds. for example, if yields remain low when we reinvest such proceeds, our future net investment income would be adversely affected. in addition, depending on the specific bonds available for purchase at the time of re-investment, the mix of specific issuers in our fixed-income and municipal bond portfolio will change. as a result, the overall credit profile and other aspects of our portfolio could be adversely impacted. also, a decrease in municipal bonds that have been pre-refunded with u.s. treasury securities could reduce the credit quality of our portfolio. our portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. see "changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us" below. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate and real estate partnerships, all 56 table of contents of which could be adversely impacted by further declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships. from time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including commodities. all of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. from time to time, the company enters into short positions in u.s. treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio. although the use of u.s. treasury futures contracts in 2013 resulted in realized investment gains, u.s. treasury futures contracts can also result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. given that economic and market conditions are highly uncertain, we may, depending on circumstances in the future, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio. these changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we have received and continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from policyholders (including others seeking coverage under a policy). factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on previously peripheral defendants. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has prompted plaintiffs to aggressively seek out potential new defendants and has caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but who remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on previously peripheral defendants, contributes to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we experienced. we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence 57 table of contents under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. accordingly, although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to asbestos claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we have received and continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. the company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; the emergence of a greater number of asbestos claims than anticipated as a result of extended life expectancies resulting from medical advances and lifestyle improvements; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; 58 table of contents the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business, including by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number, size or types of claims or by mandating changes to our underwriting practices. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new or expanded theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; 59 table of contents claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; failed financial institutions; fraud; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; claims related to data security breaches, information system failures or cyber-attacks; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; claims relating to molestation by an employee or a volunteer of an insured; medical developments that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative trauma), resulting in liability or workers' compensation claims; claims alleging that one or more of our underwriting criteria have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the law, including the fair housing act; claims arising out of techniques to expand access to oil and gas resources, such as hydraulic fracturing; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions, including higher frequency and severity of weather-related events. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in recent years, pension and hedge funds and other entities with substantial available capital have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries. well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, or existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital may conduct business in ways that adversely impact our business volumes and profitability. further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels. 60 table of contents in personal insurance, the use of comparative rating technologies has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business as well as the industry as a whole. a substantial amount of the company's personal insurance new business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative rating technologies, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. because the use of this technology, whether by agents or directly by customers, facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. it also has resulted in an increase in the level of quote activity and a lower percentage of quotes that result in new business from customers, and these trends may continue or accelerate. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, there is potential for similar technology to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business. agents, brokers or other third parties may also create alternate distribution channels for personal or commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. other technological changes may present competitive risks. for example, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and may become an increasingly important competitive factor. other potential technological changes, such as driverless cars, could disrupt the demand for our products from current customers, and we may not be able to respond effectively. in addition, our competitive position could be impacted by our ability to deploy, in a cost effective manner, technology that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called "big data" analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions. see also "our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology" below. in recent years, we have undertaken various actions to improve our underwriting margins on many of our insurance products, and competitive dynamics may impact the success of these efforts. these efforts include seeking improved rates, as well as improved terms and conditions, and also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs. these efforts may not be successful and/or may result in lower retention and new business levels and therefore lower business volumes. in addition, if our underwriting is not effective, efforts to increase rates could also lead to "adverse selection", whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost. for more detail, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations outlook." in particular, in our agency automobile line of business, we have undertaken various actions to improve our underwriting margins, which have been negatively impacted by various factors. see "item 1 business personal insurance competition" above for a description of some of these actions, including the offer of a new, more competitively-priced product. these factors include (i) changes in customer preferences and demand for direct distribution channels, (ii) utilization of comparative rating technologies by agents and (iii) other technological changes, as described above. if our strategies to increase profitability in the agency automobile line of business are not effective, we may need to explore other actions or initiatives to improve our competitive position and profitability in this line of business. overall, our competitive position in our various businesses is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to profitably price our business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and client relationships; ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems; 61 table of contents speed of claims payment; ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are certain amounts related to structured settlements. structured settlements are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. if it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, we would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. many life insurance companies were negatively impacted by the financial markets disruption and the economic downturn. a number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business or to which we otherwise have credit exposure, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant 62 table of contents reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations. if a customer of ours defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under workers' compensation insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of 63 table of contents policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, policyholders' surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. the naic recently amended the insurance holding company model regulation requiring insurers who are part of a holding company system to complete an enterprise risk report to provide a summary of the holding company's enterprise risk management (erm) framework. it is possible that our states of domicile will require changes in our erm process or take other regulatory actions that could limit our ability to write additional business or require that we hold additional capital. see "enterprise risk management" herein for further discussion of the company's erm. in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. for example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, may be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. state laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results. while the u.s. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, in 2010 the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office (the fio) within the u.s. department of the treasury. the fio has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers. in december 2013, the fio released a report recommending ways to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states. while the report did not recommend full federal regulation of insurance, it did suggest an expanded federal role in some circumstances. in addition, the report suggested that congress should consider direct federal involvement to fill regulatory gaps identified in the report, should those gaps persist, for example, by considering either establishing a federal coordinating body or a direct regulator of select aspects of the industry, such as large complex institutions or institutions that seek a federal charter, if a law is passed to allow a federal charter. it is not clear as to the extent, if any, the report will lead to regulatory changes or how any such changes would impact the company. the dodd-frank act also gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of nonbank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the fsoc) as "systemically important 64 table of contents financial institutions" (sifi). the fsoc, chaired by the secretary of the treasury, is a group of federal financial regulators, a state insurance regulator and an independent insurance expert. the fsoc finalized its first set of sifi designations in july and september 2013 and, based upon the fsoc's rules and interpretive guidance, the company was not included in the designated companies. nonetheless, it is possible that the council may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as a sifi, the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other insurers that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. changes in the u.s. regulatory framework could impact the overall competitive environment by imposing additional burdens on us and allowing other competitors not subject to these same burdens to enter or expand their insurance businesses. even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. in particular, the dodd-frank act authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation) and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies periodically review insurers' ratings and change their ratings criteria; therefore, our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. see also "during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected." for further discussion about our ratings, see, "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our u.s. insurance 65 table of contents subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to state insurance regulation as an insurance holding company system. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, insurance regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with, and fees paid to, some agents and brokers, and/or otherwise negatively impact the pricing or distribution of our products. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new products or distribution channels, including our current efforts to establish a direct-to-consumer platform in the personal insurance segment and our new quantum 2.0 auto product. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. access to greater levels of data and increased utilization of technology by agents and brokers may also impact our relationship with them and our competitive position. our efforts or their efforts with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize data and technology, could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume of business generated from these sources. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see "if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted" below. customers in the past have brought claims against us for the actions of our agents. even with proper controls in place, actual or alleged errors or inaccuracies by our agents could result in our involvement in disputes, litigation or regulatory actions related to actions taken or not taken by our agents. our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve 66 table of contents developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. this includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: we may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured, contain new coverage or coverage terms or contain different commission terms. for example, in response to the competitive environment in personal auto insurance, we have started to roll-out a new product called quantum auto 2.0 that is intended to be more competitively-priced. see "item 1 business personal insurance competition." we may refine our underwriting processes. for example, in certain of our businesses in recent years, we have substantially increased the volume of business that flows through our automated underwriting and pricing systems. we may seek to expand distribution channels, such as our efforts to develop a direct-to-consumer platform in personal insurance. we may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. among other risks: demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. to the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated or effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. this, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins. to develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. if our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize third-party and proprietary models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry data and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of: interest rates, inflation, capital requirements, and 67 table of contents frequency and severity of losses, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third-party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. third party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. as a result, third-party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third-party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. as we expand into different markets and geographies, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets and geographies, and, accordingly, we may be more susceptible to error in our models and strategy. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, including with respect to the technology portfolio of our recently acquired businesses, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis, particularly if such an interruption lasts for an extended period of time. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, or due to a computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or 68 table of contents experiences an interruption. business interruptions and failures of controls could also result if our internal systems do not interface with each other as intended, including as it relates to recently acquired businesses. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address such a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. like other global companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material breach of cyber security. over time, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase, however, and our administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to detect or prevent unauthorized access, other physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. in addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks. we have increasingly outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may continue to do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security or service disruptions, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. for example, while we do not believe it will materially and adversely impact our operations or results, we terminated a contract with one of our outsourcing vendors in the fourth quarter of 2013 because they breached that contract by providing proprietary company information to one of our competitors. in addition to risks caused by third party providers, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or public policy inside or outside of the united states. the increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the u.s. federal and state governments, the european union or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. as a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in canada, the united kingdom and the republic 69 table of contents of ireland. in addition, we have a joint venture in brazil and may also explore opportunities in other countries, including latin american countries and other emerging markets such as india and china. in conducting business outside of the united states, we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. following the completion of our acquisition of dominion, a larger portion of our premiums from outside of the united states will be comprised of premiums generated in canada, a substantial portion of which will consist of automobile premiums from the province of ontario, which is a highly-regulated market. our business activities outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment. our business activities outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. for example, in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture, and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. in addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets and other non-u.s. locations may be intense. if we are not able to hire, integrate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of employees with the knowledge and background necessary for our global businesses, those businesses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. new regulations outside of the u.s., including in the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii that would apply to the company's businesses across the european union. the implementation date of solvency ii has been delayed until january 1, 2016, although some aspects, including governance guidelines, own-risk assessments and regulatory reporting, will be phased in before the full implementation date. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. company is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where the company has operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and with the naic in the u.s.) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision. 70 table of contents in july 2013, the iais published a methodology for identifying "global systemically important insurers" (g-siis) and high level policy measures that will apply to the g-siis. the methodology and measures were endorsed by the financial stability board (fsb) created by the g-20. using the iais methodology, the fsb, working with national authorities and the iais, identified nine insurers that they designated as g-siis. the iais is working on the policy measures which include higher capital requirements and enhanced supervision. the company was not named a g-sii by the fsb in the initial designation. the fsb will update the list annually, and it is possible that the methodologies could be amended or interpreted differently in the future and the company could be named as a g-sii. the iais also is in the process of developing the common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (comframe). the iais released a consultation draft in october 2013, which may lead to similar policy measures as those being developed for g-siis, including group supervision and an insurance capital standard (i.e., global group capital requirement). the company would be considered an internationally active insurance group under the current consultation draft. it is possible that comframe could lead to enhanced supervision and higher capital standards on a global basis if the iais, the naic and the individual states adopt the proposed or similar provisions. while it is not yet known how or if these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management, and could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. loss of or significant restrictions on the use of particular types of underwriting criteria, such as credit scoring, in the pricing and underwriting of our products could reduce our future profitability. our underwriting profitability depends in large part on our ability to competitively price our products at a level that will adequately compensate us for the risks assumed. as a result, risk selection and pricing through the application of actuarially sound and segmented underwriting criteria is critical. however, laws or regulations, or judicial or administrative findings, could significantly curtail the use of particular types of underwriting criteria. for example, we may use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and/or regulators have alleged that the use of credit scoring violates the law by discriminating against persons belonging to a protected class and are calling for the prohibition or restrictions on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. a variety of other underwriting criteria used in personal and commercial insurance have been and continue to be criticized by regulators, government agencies, consumer groups or individuals on similar or other grounds. resulting regulatory actions or litigation could result in negative publicity and/or generate adverse rules or findings, such as curtailing the use of important underwriting criteria, each of which could adversely affect our future profitability. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition justify the risks. for example, in november 2013, we acquired dominion and significantly expanded our canadian operations. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of, or other difficulties with, underwriting, risk management, claims handling, information technology and actuarial practices; uncertainties related to an acquiree's reserve estimates and its design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; 71 table of contents the loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact on our financial position and/or credit ratings. acquired businesses may not perform as projected, any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated. acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial costs or delays and adversely affecting our ability to compete. accordingly, our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. in addition, ineffective controls, including with respect to our recently acquired businesses, could lead to litigation or regulatory action. the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against various types of financial institutions have increased in recent years. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse financial impact. see note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized underwriting knowledge. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals, including our senior executives, many of whom have decades of experience in the insurance industry. see "item 10 directors, executive officers and corporate governance" for more information relating to our executive officers. for many of our senior positions, we compete for talent not just with insurance or financial service companies, but with other large companies and other businesses. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing on the intellectual property of others. our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary trademarks, technology and other intellectual property. see "item 1 other information intellectual property." we may not, however, be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use and disclosure by others. for example, the laws of intellectual property may not prevent our competitors from independently developing trademarks, products and services that are similar to ours. moreover, the agreements we execute to protect our intellectual property rights may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies in response. our attempts to patent or register our intellectual property rights in the u.s. and worldwide may not succeed initially or may later be challenged by third parties. 72 table of contents further, the laws of certain countries outside the united states may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. we may incur significant costs in our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the initiation of expensive and protracted litigation, and we may not prevail. any inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties from time to time that our products, services and technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. in recent years, certain entities have acquired patents in order to allege claims of infringement against companies, including in some cases us. any intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of the merits of the claims. if we are found to infringe on any third-party intellectual property rights, it could result in reputational harm, payment of significant monetary damages, payment of license fees (if licenses are even available to us, on reasonable terms or otherwise) and/or substantial time and expense to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid the infringement. in addition, we use third-party software in some of our products, services and technologies. if any of our software vendors or licensors are faced with infringement claims, we may lose our ability to use such software until the dispute is resolved. if we cannot successfully redesign an infringing product, service or technology (or procure a substitute version), this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. changes to existing accounting standards may adversely impact our reported results. as a u.s.-based sec registrant, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (us gaap), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board (fasb), subject to the accounting-related rules and interpretations of the securities and exchange commission (sec). during the last several years, the sec has been evaluating whether, when and how international financial reporting standards (ifrs) should be incorporated into the u.s. financial reporting system, including for companies such as us. the fasb and the international accounting standards board (iasb) have also embarked on a long-term project to converge us gaap and ifrs. in june 2012, the fasb issued a statement that indicated that based on the nature and totality of differences between the fasb's and iasb's views, it is not likely that the two boards will achieve convergence on their joint project on the accounting for insurance contracts. the fasb further noted that the fasb and iasb have very different perspectives on the project. in june 2013, each board issued for comment exposure drafts on the accounting for insurance contracts that have significant differences from the other board's draft as well as from current us gaap. both exposure drafts propose changes that, if ultimately adopted, could significantly impact the accounting by insurers, including the company, for premiums and unearned premium reserves, the liability for claims and claims adjustment expenses, reinsurance, and deferred acquisition costs. the boards are reviewing the comments received on the exposure drafts and are expected to begin re-deliberations in the first quarter of 2014. it is currently unclear what changes, if any, may be made to the accounting for insurance contracts under us gaap as a result of this project, and we are not able to predict whether we will choose to, or be required to, adopt ifrs or how the adoption of ifrs (or the convergence of us gaap and ifrs, including the project on the accounting for insurance contracts) may impact our financial statements in the future. changes in accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to insurance company operations, may impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could cause increased volatility in reported earnings, resulting in other adverse impacts on the company's ratings and cost of capital, and decrease the understandability of our financial results as well as the comparability of our reported results with other insurers. changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us. tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us. for example, federal tax legislation could be enacted to reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35%, which would, accordingly, reduce any u.s. deferred tax asset. the amount of any net 73 table of contents deferred tax asset is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, along with other changes in the tax rules that may increase the company's actual tax expense, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our investment portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, such legislation could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, particularly changes to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (which comprise 49% of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2013) could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds. other tax law changes could adversely impact us. the size of the federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2013. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2013 and 2012 was $73.16 billion and $73.84 billion, respectively, of which 87% and 89% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 9.3% and 6.2%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the increase at december 31, 2013 primarily reflected the impact of the company's acquisition of dominion. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. in 2013, the estimated average effective duration of the company's portfolio of fixed maturity and short-term security investments increased, primarily reflecting the impact of an increase in interest rates during the year. by the end of the second quarter of 2013, based upon the outlook for interest rates, the company closed all of its short positions in u.s. treasury futures contracts, which it had used to reduce the company's exposure to a decrease in its book value resulting from an increase in interest rates. during the second half of 2013, the company did not enter into any u.s. treasury futures contracts. the company may once again enter into positions in u.s. treasury futures in future periods to help manage the duration of its investment portfolio. for additional information regarding the company's investments, see notes 3 and 4 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "investment portfolio" and "outlook" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 8 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets, insurance reserves and shareholders' equity denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 5.5% and 2.3% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the increase at december 31, 2013 primarily reflected the impact of the company's acquisition of dominion. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.4% of the total invested assets at both december 31, 2013 and 2012. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2013 and 2012 were not material. 161 table of contents there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the year ended december 31, 2012. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2013 and 2012. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2013 and 2012 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $1.90 billion and $1.64 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is 162 table of contents used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $681 million and $459 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. this increase in the projected loss at december 31, 2013 primarily reflected the impact of the company's acquisition of dominion. 163 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and other naturally-occurring events, such as solar flares. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), explosions and infrastructure failures. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states and canada, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes throughout the central, mid-atlantic and southeastern regions of the united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in western states and canada; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition to our operations in the united states and canada, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom and the republic of ireland, as well as to a variety of world-wide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations, and in brazil through our joint venture investment. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. severe weather events over the last decade have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends, and potentially changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, over the last decade, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced by us, thus expanding our potential for losses from hurricanes. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornado and hail storms in the united states have been more volatile in recent years. moreover, we could experience more than one highly severe catastrophic event in any given period. all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to evaluate certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer and may be even less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. as a result, models for earthquakes and tornado and hail storms may have even greater difficulty predicting risks and estimating losses. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. 51 table of contents states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies or seek to prevent the application of deductibles. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also factors that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. in recent years, increased late reporting of weather-related losses by claimants, particularly losses from hail damage, has led to higher costs than we previously expected. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted in subsequent periods as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. under current provisions of this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our 52 table of contents commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 85% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.38 billion for 2015. over the six-year life of the reauthorized program, the federal government reimbursement percentage will fall from 85% to 80%. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. it is also possible that future legislation could change or eliminate the program, which could adversely affect our business by increasing our exposure to terrorism losses, or by lowering our business volume through efforts to avoid that exposure. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events or man-made events such as a terrorist attack, including "unconventional" acts of terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising from a high frequency of high severity natural catastrophes and/or of man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means. in addition, while we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological means. during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. worldwide financial markets have, from time to time, experienced significant disruption. for example, during the financial crisis that started approximately seven years ago, the united states and many other economies experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of certain investments and decreased economic activity. financial markets may again experience significant and prolonged disruption, including as a result of unanticipated events. in recent years, the federal government, particularly the federal reserve, has taken extraordinary steps to stabilize financial markets, encourage economic growth and keep interest rates low. during this time, the united states has experienced a slow rate of economic growth. even if economic growth continues in the united states, or other regions in which we do business, it may be at a slow or slower rate for an extended period of time. while inflation has recently been limited and that trend may continue, it is possible that the steps taken by the federal government to stabilize financial markets and improve economic conditions could lead to an inflationary environment. further, such steps may be ineffective and, in the case of the federal reserve, actual or anticipated efforts to continue to unwind some of such steps could disrupt financial markets and/or could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio or general economic conditions. financial market disruption or economic downturns could be exacerbated by actual or potential economic and geopolitical instability in many regions of the world. this can impact our business even if we do not conduct business in the region subject to the instability. for example, due to globalization, instability in one region can spread to other regions where we do business. in europe, uncertainty in recent years has included the increased potential for default by one or more european sovereign debt issuers, the potential partial or complete dissolution of the eurozone and its common currency and the negative impact of such potential events on global financial institutions and capital markets generally. actions or inactions of european governments may impact these actual or perceived risks. in the united states, future actions or inactions of the united states government can also impact economic conditions. for example, issues related to the u.s. federal budget and taxes, implementation of the affordable care act and the regulatory environment have added to the uncertainty regarding economic conditions generally. if economic conditions deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. several of 53 table of contents the risk factors discussed below identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, an economic slowdown or financial disruption. these include risks discussed below related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," particularly the "outlook" section. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even after the end of an economic downturn or financial disruption. during or following an economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce (and historically have reduced) exposure changes at renewal. they also could adversely impact (and historically have adversely impacted) audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations after policies are written, particularly in our business units within business and international insurance, which could adversely impact our written premiums. an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may also, as we discuss below, adversely impact our loss costs and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of financial market disruption, we may, as discussed below, face increased regulation. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures on medical costs and auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). as discussed above, it is possible that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize the economy could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail," such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. in addition, a significant portion of claims costs, including those in "long tail" lines of business, consists of medical costs. healthcare reform legislation and its implementation may significantly impact the availability, cost and allocation of payments for medical services, and it is possible that, as a result, inflationary pressures in medical costs may increase or claim frequency and/or severity may otherwise be adversely impacted. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. 54 table of contents we continually refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled, and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 93% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2014. changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value. during 2014, the net unrealized gain in our fixed income portfolio increased from $1.76 billion to $2.67 billion as interest rates decreased. it is possible that future increases in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) could result in a decline in that unrealized gain position or even result in an unrealized loss, thereby adversely impacting our book value. interest rates in recent years have been and remain at very low levels relative to historical experience, and it is possible that rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is also subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default. rapid changes in commodity prices, such as a significant decline in oil and gas prices, could also subject certain of our investments to a higher risk of default. 55 table of contents our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: the prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008, and the limited economic recovery that has followed, has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations and other postretirement obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue. the collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. a substantial portion of our fixed maturity portfolio will mature within the next few years. approximately 40% of the fixed maturity portfolio is expected to mature over the next three years (this includes the early redemption of bonds, assuming interest rates (including credit spreads) do not rise significantly by applicable call dates). for a schedule of the contractual maturities of our fixed maturity portfolio by year for the next several years, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investment portfolio." of that maturing portfolio, a substantial amount includes municipal bonds that have been pre-refunded with u.s. treasury securities. as a result, even if our investment strategy does not significantly change over the next few years, the overall yield on and composition of our portfolio could be meaningfully impacted by the types of investments available for reinvestment with the proceeds of matured bonds. for example, if yields remain low when we reinvest such proceeds, our future net investment income would be adversely affected. in addition, depending on the specific bonds available for purchase at the time of re-investment, the mix of specific issuers in our fixed-income and municipal bond portfolio will change. our portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. see "changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us" below. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate and real estate partnerships, all 56 table of contents of which could be adversely impacted by declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships. from time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including investments with exposure to commodity price risk, such as in the energy sector. all of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. from time to time, the company enters into short positions in u.s. treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio, which can result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. given that economic and market conditions have been and could be highly uncertain, we may, depending on circumstances in the future, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio. these changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we have received and continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from policyholders (including others seeking coverage under a policy). factors underlying these claim filings include continued intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation, has contributed to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we experienced. we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. 57 table of contents to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we have received and continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims arise under various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla and similar state laws may be imposed on certain parties even if they did not cause the release or threatened release of hazardous substances and may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. the company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; the emergence of a greater number of asbestos claims than anticipated as a result of extended life expectancies resulting from medical advances and lifestyle improvements; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; 58 table of contents the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders and other defendants. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain . as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business, including by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number, size or types of claims or by mandating changes to our underwriting practices. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new or expanded theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; 59 table of contents claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; failed financial institutions; fraud; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; claims related to data and network security breaches, information system failures or cyber attacks; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; claims related to liability or workers' compensation arising out of the spread of infectious disease or pandemic; claims relating to molestation by an employee or a volunteer of an insured; claims that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative traumatic head injury from sports or other causes), resulting in liability or workers' compensation claims; claims alleging that one or more of our underwriting criteria have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the law, including the fair housing act; claims arising out of techniques to expand access to oil and gas resources, such as hydraulic fracturing; claims arising out of the use of personal cars, homes or other property in commercial transactions, such as ride or home sharing; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies or business processes; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions, including higher frequency and severity of weather-related events. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability . the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in recent years, pension and hedge funds and other entities with substantial available capital have increasingly 60 table of contents sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses. well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, or existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, may conduct business in ways that adversely impact our business volumes and profitability. further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely significantly on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels, not only in personal lines (where we currently and may increasingly compete against direct writers), but also in commercial lines (where direct writers may become a more significant source of competition in the future, particularly in the small commercial market). in personal insurance, the use of comparative rating technologies has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business as well as the industry as a whole. a substantial amount of the company's personal insurance new business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative rating technologies, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. because the use of this technology, whether by agents or directly by customers, facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. it also has resulted in an increase in the level of quote activity and a lower percentage of quotes that result in new business from customers, and these trends may continue or accelerate. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, similar technology is starting to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business and that trend may continue or accelerate. agents, brokers, significant technology companies or other third parties may also create alternate distribution channels for personal or commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. other technological changes may present competitive risks. for example, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and may become an increasingly important competitive factor. other potential technological changes, such as driverless cars or technologies that facilitate ride or home sharing, could disrupt the demand for our products from current customers, create coverage issues or impact the frequency or severity of losses, and we may not be able to respond effectively. in addition, our competitive position could be impacted by our ability to deploy, in a cost effective manner, technology that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called "big data" analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions. see also "our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology" below. in recent years, we have undertaken various actions to improve our underwriting margins on many of our insurance products, and competitive dynamics may impact the success of these efforts. these efforts include seeking improved rates, as well as improved terms and conditions, and also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs. these efforts may not continue to be successful and/or may result in lower retention and new business levels and therefore lower business volumes. in addition, if our underwriting is not effective, further efforts to increase rates could also lead to "adverse selection", whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost. for more detail, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations outlook." in particular, in our agency automobile line of business, we have undertaken various actions to improve our underwriting margins, which have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by various factors. see "item 1 business personal insurance competition" above for a description of some of these actions, including the offer of a new, more competitively-priced product. these factors include (i) changes in customer preferences and demand for direct distribution channels, (ii) utilization of comparative rating technologies by agents and/or technology companies and (iii) other technological changes, as described above. if our strategies to increase profitability in the agency automobile line of business are not effective, we may need to explore other actions or initiatives to improve our competitive position and profitability in this line of business. 61 table of contents overall, our competitive position in our various businesses is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to profitably price our business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and client relationships; ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems; speed of claims payment; ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to certain structured settlements. structured settlements are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. if it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, we would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. 62 table of contents many life insurance companies were negatively impacted by the financial markets disruption and the economic downturn beginning in 2008. a number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business or to which we otherwise have credit exposure, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business and investment operations including reinsurance or structured settlements. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations, including exposure to large customers who may have obligations to multiple third parties. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under casualty insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks, surety bonds or cash. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been 63 table of contents paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. included in these changes is an amendment to insurance holding company regulations that require insurers who are part of a holding company system to file an enterprise risk report to provide the lead insurance regulator with a summary of the company's enterprise risk management (erm) framework including the material risks within the insurance holding company system that could pose risk to the insurance entities within the holding company system. beginning in 2015, insurers having premium volume above certain thresholds, including the company, will also be required to perform at least annually a self-assessment of their current and future risks, including their likely future solvency position (known as an own risk and solvency assessment or orsa) and file a confidential report with the insurer's lead insurance regulator. the orsa concept has two primary goals, which are to foster an effective level of erm at all insurers within the holding company system, and to provide a group wide perspective on risk and capital as a supplement to the legal entity view. orsa is now included in the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) standards and is in various stages of implementation in the united states, europe, canada, and other jurisdictions. it is possible that, as a result of orsa or other reasons, our states of domicile or other regulatory bodies will require changes in our erm process or take other regulatory actions that could limit our ability to write additional business or reduce our capital management flexibility. see "enterprise risk management" herein for further discussion of the company's erm. the naic and state insurance regulators, as well as the federal reserve and federal insurance office, are currently working with the iais to develop a global common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs). if adopted, comframe would require the designation of a group-wide supervisor (regulator) for each iaig and would impose a 64 table of contents group capital requirement that would be applied to an iaig in addition to the current legal entity capital requirements imposed by state insurance regulators. in response to comframe, the naic is developing a model law that would allow state insurance regulators in the u.s. to be designated as group-wide supervisors for u.s. based iaigs. additionally, the naic is developing a group capital standard that would be applied to u.s. based insurance groups. these regulatory developments could increase the amount of capital that the company is required to have and could result in the company being subject to increased regulatory requirements. in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. for example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital and surplus requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, may be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. state laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results. while the u.s. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office (the fio) within the u.s. department of the treasury. the fio has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers. in december 2013, the fio released a report recommending ways to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states. while the report did not recommend full federal regulation of insurance, it did suggest an expanded federal role in some circumstances. in addition, the report suggested that congress should consider direct federal involvement to fill regulatory gaps identified in the report, should those gaps persist, for example, by considering either establishing a federal coordinating body or a direct regulator of select aspects of the industry, such as large complex institutions or institutions that seek a federal charter, if a law is passed to allow a federal charter. it is not clear as to the extent, if any, the report will lead to regulatory changes or how any such changes would impact the company. the dodd-frank act also gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of nonbank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the fsoc) as "systemically important financial institutions" (sifi). the fsoc, chaired by the secretary of the treasury, is a group of federal financial regulators, a state insurance regulator and an independent insurance expert. the fsoc considers companies for designation as a sifi annually and finalized its first set of sifi designations in 2013. the company, based upon the fsoc's rules and interpretive guidance, has not been designated as a sifi. nonetheless, it is possible that the council may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as a sifi, the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other insurers that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. changes in the u.s. regulatory framework could impact the overall competitive environment by imposing additional burdens on us and allowing other competitors not subject to these same burdens to enter or expand their insurance businesses. 65 table of contents even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. in particular, the dodd-frank act authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation) and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies periodically review insurers' ratings and change their ratings criteria; therefore, our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. see also "during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected." for further discussion about our ratings, see, "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our u.s. insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory capital and surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to state insurance regulation as an insurance holding company system. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, insurance regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. 66 table of contents the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us. we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with, and fees paid to, some agents and brokers, and/or otherwise negatively impact the pricing or distribution of our products. agents and brokers may increasingly compete with us to the extent that markets increasingly provide them with direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk. see also "the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability." in all of the foregoing situations, loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new products or distribution channels, including our establishment of a direct-to-consumer platform in the personal insurance segment and our new quantum 2.0 auto product. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business, such as insurance exchanges, that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. access to greater levels of data and increased utilization of technology by agents and brokers may also impact our relationship with them and our competitive position. our efforts or their efforts with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize data and technology, could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume of business generated from these sources. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see "if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted" below. customers in the past have brought claims against us for the actions of our agents. even with proper controls in place, actual or alleged errors or inaccuracies by our agents could result in our involvement in disputes, litigation or regulatory actions related to actions taken or not taken by our agents. our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. this includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: we may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured, contain new coverage or coverage terms or contain different commission terms. for example, in response to the competitive environment in personal auto insurance, we have rolled out a new product called quantum auto 2.0 that is intended to be more competitively-priced. see "item 1 business personal insurance competition." 67 table of contents we may refine our underwriting processes. for example, in certain of our businesses in recent years, we have substantially increased the volume of business that flows through our automated underwriting and pricing systems. we may seek to expand distribution channels, such as our establishment of a direct-to-consumer platform in personal insurance. we may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. among other risks: demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. to the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated or effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. this, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins. to develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. if our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize third-party and proprietary models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry data and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of: interest rates, inflation, capital requirements, and frequency and severity of losses, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third-party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. third party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. as a result, third-party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third-party model estimates 68 table of contents and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. as we expand into different markets and geographies, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets and geographies, and, accordingly, we may be more susceptible to error in our models and strategy. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits we expect once they are complete, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, including with respect to the technology portfolio of our recently acquired businesses, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis, particularly if such an interruption lasts for an extended period of time. in the event of a computer virus or disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. business interruptions and failures of controls could also result if our internal systems do not interface with each other as intended, including as it relates to recently acquired businesses. business continuity can also be disrupted by an event, such as a pandemic, that renders large numbers of a workforce unable to work as needed, particularly at critical locations; for example, our largest location employs about 20% of our employees. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. 69 table of contents our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers and employee or vendor misconduct, and other external hazards, could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. like other global companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses, malware or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material breach of cyber-security. however, over time, and particularly recently, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. our administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to detect or prevent unauthorized access, other physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. in addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks. we have increasingly outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may continue to do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security or service disruptions, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. for example, while it did not materially and adversely impact our operations or results, we terminated a contract with one of our outsourcing vendors in the fourth quarter of 2013 because they breached that contract by providing proprietary company information to one of our competitors. in addition to risks caused by third party providers, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or public policy inside or outside of the united states. the increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under evolving cyber-security, data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the u.s. federal and state governments, the european union or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. as a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in canada, the united kingdom and the republic of ireland. in addition, we have a joint venture in brazil and may also explore opportunities in other countries, including latin american countries and other emerging markets such as india. in conducting business outside of the united states, we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital 70 table of contents controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. following the completion of our acquisition of dominion, a larger portion of our premiums from outside of the united states are now comprised of premiums generated in canada, a substantial portion of which consists of automobile premiums from the province of ontario, which is a highly regulated market. our business activities outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk, or we may choose not to hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment. our business activities outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. for example, in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture, and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. in addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets and other non-u.s. locations may be intense. if we are not able to hire, integrate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of employees with the knowledge and background necessary for our global businesses, those businesses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. new regulations outside of the united states, including in the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii that would apply to the company's businesses across the european union. the implementation date of solvency ii has been delayed until january 1, 2016, although some aspects, including governance guidelines, own risk assessments and regulatory reporting, are being phased in before the full implementation date. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. company is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where the company has operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and with the naic, the federal reserve and fio in the u.s.) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision and group capital requirements. in july 2013, the iais published a methodology for identifying "global systemically important insurers" (g-siis) and high level policy measures that will apply to the g-siis. the methodology and measures were endorsed by the financial stability board (fsb) created by the g-20. using the iais 71 table of contents methodology, the fsb, working with national authorities and the iais, identified nine insurers that they designated as g-siis. the iais is working on the policy measures which include higher capital requirements and enhanced supervision. the company has not been designated as a g-sii by the fsb; however, the fsb updates the list annually, and it is possible that the methodologies could be amended or interpreted differently in the future and the company could be named as a g-sii. the iais also is in the process of developing the common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (comframe). the iais released a consultation draft in october 2013, which may lead to similar policy measures as those being developed for g-siis, including group supervision and an insurance capital standard (i.e., global group capital requirement). the iais revised the comframe guidance based on comments received and is currently in the process of field testing many of the requirements. the company would be considered an internationally active insurance group under the current consultation draft. it is possible that comframe, if adopted, could lead to enhanced supervision and higher capital standards on a global basis if the iais, the naic and the individual states adopt the proposed or similar provisions. while it is not yet known how or if these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management, and could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. loss of or significant restrictions on the use of particular types of underwriting criteria, such as credit scoring, in the pricing and underwriting of our products could reduce our future profitability. our underwriting profitability depends in large part on our ability to competitively price our products at a level that will adequately compensate us for the risks assumed. as a result, risk selection and pricing through the application of actuarially sound and segmented underwriting criteria is critical. however, laws or regulations, or judicial or administrative findings, could significantly curtail the use of particular types of underwriting criteria. for example, we may use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and/or regulators have alleged that the use of credit scoring violates the law by discriminating against persons belonging to a protected class and are calling for the prohibition or restrictions on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. a variety of other underwriting criteria used in personal and commercial insurance have been and continue to be criticized by regulators, government agencies, consumer groups or individuals on similar or other grounds. resulting regulatory actions or litigation could result in negative publicity and/or generate adverse rules or findings, such as curtailing the use of important underwriting criteria, each of which could adversely affect our future profitability. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition justify the risks. for example, in november 2013, we acquired dominion and significantly expanded our canadian operations. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of, or other difficulties with, underwriting, risk management, claims handling, information technology and actuarial practices; uncertainties related to an acquiree's reserve estimates and its design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; 72 table of contents unforeseen liabilities; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact on our financial position and/or credit ratings. acquired businesses may not perform as projected, any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated. acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial costs or delays and adversely affecting our ability to compete. accordingly, our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. in addition, ineffective controls, including with respect to our recently acquired businesses, could lead to litigation or regulatory action. the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against various types of financial institutions have increased in recent years. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse financial impact. see note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized underwriting knowledge. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals, including our senior executives (many of whom have decades of experience in the insurance industry), and the board of directors regularly engages in succession discussions. each of our chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer and chief investment officer is highly experienced and over 61 years of age, and our chief executive officer announced in 2014 that he had been diagnosed with a neuromuscular condition. see "item 10 directors, executive officers and corporate governance" for more information relating to our executive officers, including our senior leaders. for many of our senior positions, we compete for talent not just with insurance or financial service companies, but with other large companies and other businesses. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others. our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary trademarks, technology and other intellectual property. see "item 1 other information intellectual property." we may not, however, be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use and disclosure by others. further, the intellectual property laws may not prevent our competitors from independently developing trademarks, products and services that are similar to ours. moreover, the agreements we execute to protect our intellectual property rights may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies in response. our attempts to patent or register our intellectual property rights 73 table of contents in the u.s. and worldwide may not succeed initially or may later be challenged by third parties. further, the laws of certain countries outside the united states may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. we may incur significant costs in our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the initiation of expensive and protracted litigation, and we may not prevail. any inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties from time to time that our products, services and technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. in recent years, certain entities have acquired patents in order to allege claims of infringement against companies, including in some cases, us. any intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of the merits of the claims. if we are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights, it could result in reputational harm, payment of significant monetary damages, payment of license fees (if licenses are even available to us, on reasonable terms or otherwise) and/or substantial time and expense to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid the infringement. in addition, we use third-party software in some of our products, services and technologies. if any of our software vendors or licensors are faced with infringement claims, we may lose our ability to use such software until the dispute is resolved. if we cannot successfully redesign an infringing product, service or technology (or procure a substitute version), this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. changes to existing accounting standards may adversely impact our reported results. as a u.s.-based sec registrant, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (u.s. gaap), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board (fasb), subject to the accounting-related rules and interpretations of the securities and exchange commission (sec). during the last several years, the sec has been evaluating whether, when and how international financial reporting standards (ifrs) should be incorporated into the u.s. financial reporting system, including for companies such as us. in december 2014, the sec indicated that it plans to explore allowing ifrs financial statements or financial information as supplemental information in sec filings. the fasb and the international accounting standards board (iasb) have been working on a long-term project to converge u.s. gaap and ifrs, which included a project on insurance accounting. while the fasb decided during 2014 to retain current u.s. gaap for property and casualty insurance contracts, the iasb is continuing its development of a new model that is significantly different than current u.s. gaap. we are not able to predict whether we will choose to, or be required to, adopt ifrs or how the adoption of ifrs (or the convergence of u.s. gaap and ifrs, including the project on the accounting for insurance contracts) may impact our financial statements in the future. changes in accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to insurance company operations, may impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could cause increased volatility in reported earnings, resulting in other adverse impacts on the company's ratings and cost of capital, and decrease the understandability of our financial results as well as the comparability of our reported results with other insurers. changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us. tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us. for example, federal tax legislation could be enacted to reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35%, which would, accordingly, reduce any u.s. deferred tax asset. the amount of any net deferred tax asset is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, along with 74 table of contents other changes in the tax rules that may increase the company's actual tax expense, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our investment portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, such legislation could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, particularly changes to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (which comprise 46% of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2014) could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds. other tax law changes could adversely impact us. the size of the federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2014. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2014 and 2013 was $73.26 billion and $73.16 billion, respectively, of which 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately 8.7% and 9.3%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. for additional information regarding the company's investments, see notes 3 and 4 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "investment portfolio" and "outlook" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 8 of notes to the company's consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets, insurance reserves and shareholders' equity denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 5.2% and 5.5% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.2% 160 table of contents and 2.4% of total invested assets at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2014 and 2013 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the year ended december 31, 2013. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2014 and 2013. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2014 and 2013 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $1.77 billion and $1.90 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. 161 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $635 million and $681 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 162 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and other naturally-occurring events, such as solar flares. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical, radiological, cyber-attacks, explosions and infrastructure failures. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states and canada, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes throughout the central, mid-atlantic and southeastern regions of the united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in western states and canada; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition to our operations in the united states and canada, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom, the republic of ireland and brazil as well as to a variety of world-wide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. severe weather events over the last decade have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends, and potentially changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, over the last decade, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced by us, and demographic changes have resulted in larger populations in coastal areas which historically have been subject to severe storms, thus expanding our potential for losses from hurricanes. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornado and hail storms in the united states have been more volatile during the last decade. moreover, we could experience more than one severe catastrophic event in any given period. all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to evaluate certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer and may be even less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. as a result, models for earthquakes and tornado and hail storms may have even greater difficulty predicting risks and estimating losses. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. as compared to natural catastrophes, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism, is even more difficult and less reliable, and for some events, such as cyber-attacks, currently there are no reliable modeling techniques. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from 49 table of contents catastrophic events in the future. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies or seek to prevent the application of deductibles. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also factors that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectability. in recent years, increased late reporting of weather-related losses by claimants, particularly losses from hail damage, has led to higher costs than we previously expected. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted in subsequent periods as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in which we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are 50 table of contents subject to a deductible and other limitations. the program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in january 2015 for six years through december 31, 2020. under current provisions of this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 84% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.43 billion for 2016. over the remaining five-year life of the reauthorized program, the federal government reimbursement percentage will fall from 84% to 80%. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. for example, application of the law to a specific event will depend upon whether the government has designated such event as a covered event. it is also possible that future legislation could change or eliminate the program, which could adversely affect our business by increasing our exposure to terrorism losses, or by lowering our business volume through efforts to avoid that exposure. for a further description of the terrorism risk insurance program, see note 5 of notes to the consolidated financial statements herein. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural events or man-made events such as a terrorist attack or other intentionally destructive acts, including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical, radiological or cyber events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising from a high frequency of high severity natural catastrophes and/or of man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means. in addition, while we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving "unconventional" means, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events. during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. worldwide financial markets have, from time to time, experienced significant disruption. for example, during the financial crisis that started approximately eight years ago, the united states and many other economies experienced a prolonged economic downturn, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of certain investments and decreased economic activity. financial markets may again experience significant and prolonged disruption, including as a result of unanticipated events. in the years following the financial crisis, the federal government, particularly the federal reserve, has taken extraordinary steps to stabilize financial markets, encourage economic growth and keep interest rates low. during this time, the united states has experienced a slow rate of economic growth. even if economic growth continues in the united states, or other regions in which we do business, it may be at a slow or slower rate for an extended period of time. while inflation has recently been limited and that trend may continue, it is possible that the steps taken by the federal government to stabilize financial markets and improve economic conditions could lead to an inflationary environment. further, such steps may be ineffective and, in the case of the federal reserve, actual or anticipated efforts to continue to unwind some of such steps could disrupt financial markets and/or could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio or general economic conditions. financial market disruption or economic downturns could be exacerbated by actual or potential economic and geopolitical instability in many regions of the world. this can impact our business even if we do not conduct business in the region subject to the instability. for example, due to globalization, instability in one region can spread to other regions where we do business. in europe, uncertainty in recent years has included the increased potential for default by one or more european sovereign debt issuers, the potential partial or complete dissolution of the eurozone and its common currency and the negative impact of such potential events on global financial institutions and capital markets generally. actions or inactions of european governments may impact these actual or perceived risks. in the 51 table of contents united states, future actions or inactions of the united states government can also impact economic conditions. for example, issues related to the u.s. federal budget and taxes, implementation of the affordable care act and the regulatory environment have added to the uncertainty regarding economic conditions generally. if economic conditions deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. several of the risk factors discussed below identify risks that result from, or are exacerbated by, an economic slowdown or financial disruption. these include risks discussed below related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, emerging claim and coverage issues, the competitive environment, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," particularly the "outlook" section. many of these risks could materialize, and our financial results could be negatively impacted, even after the end of an economic downturn or financial disruption. during or following an economic downturn, lower levels of economic activity could reduce (and historically have reduced) exposure changes at renewal. they also could adversely impact (and historically have adversely impacted) audit premium adjustments, policy endorsements and mid-term cancellations after policies are written, particularly in our business units within business and international insurance, which could adversely impact our written premiums. an inflationary environment (which may follow government efforts to stabilize the economy) may also, as we discuss below, adversely impact our loss costs and could adversely impact the valuation of our investment portfolio. finally, as a result of financial market disruption, we may, as discussed below, face increased regulation. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures on medical costs and auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). as discussed above, it is possible that steps taken by the federal government to stabilize the economy could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail," such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. in addition, a significant portion of claims costs, including those in "long tail" lines of business, consists of medical costs. healthcare reform legislation and its implementation may significantly impact the availability, cost and allocation of payments for medical services, and it is possible that, as a result, inflationary pressures in medical costs 52 table of contents may increase or claim frequency and/or severity may otherwise be adversely impacted. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties, increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. we continually refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled, and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 93% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2015. changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value. during 2015, the net pretax unrealized gain in our fixed income portfolio decreased from $2.67 billion to $1.78 billion as interest rates increased. it is possible that future increases in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) could result in a further decline in that unrealized gain position or in an unrealized loss, thereby adversely impacting our book value. interest rates in recent years have been and remain at very low levels relative to historical experience, and it is possible that rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is also subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a 53 table of contents deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default. rapid changes in commodity prices, such as a significant decline in oil prices, could also subject certain of our investments to a higher risk of default. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: the prolonged economic downturn that began in 2008, and the limited economic recovery that has followed, has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations and other postretirement obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue. the collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. a substantial portion of our fixed maturity portfolio will mature within the next few years. approximately 34% of the fixed maturity portfolio is expected to mature over the next three years (this includes the early redemption of bonds, assuming interest rates (including credit spreads) do not rise significantly by applicable call dates). for a schedule of the contractual maturities of our fixed maturity portfolio by year for the next several years, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investment portfolio." of that maturing portfolio, a substantial amount includes municipal bonds that have been pre-refunded with u.s. treasury securities. as a result, even if our investment strategy does not significantly change over the next few years, the overall yield on and composition of our portfolio could be meaningfully impacted by the types of investments available for reinvestment with the proceeds of matured bonds. for example, if yields remain low when we reinvest such proceeds, our future net investment income would be adversely affected. in addition, depending on the specific bonds available for purchase at the time of re-investment, the mix of specific issuers in our fixed-income and municipal bond portfolio will change. our portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. see "changes in 54 table of contents u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us" below. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate and real estate partnerships, all of which could be adversely impacted by declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships. from time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including investments with exposure to commodity price risk, such as oil. all of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. from time to time, the company enters into short positions in u.s. treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio, which can result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. given that economic and market conditions have been and could be highly uncertain, we may, depending on circumstances in the future, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio. these changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we have received and continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from policyholders (including others seeking coverage under a policy). factors underlying these claim filings include continued intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation, has contributed to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we experienced. 55 table of contents we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we have received and continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims arise under various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla and similar state laws may be imposed on certain parties even if they did not cause the release or threatened release of hazardous substances and may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to asbestos and environmental claims. the company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; the emergence of a greater number of asbestos claims than anticipated as a result of extended life expectancies resulting from medical advances and lifestyle improvements; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes concerning coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these disputes; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; 56 table of contents any impact on asbestos defendants we insure due to the bankruptcy of other asbestos defendants; the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business, including by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number, size or types of claims or by mandating changes to our underwriting practices. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new or expanded theories of liability; 57 table of contents plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; failed financial institutions; fraud; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; claims related to data and network security breaches, information system failures or cyber-attacks, including cases where coverage was not intended to be provided; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; claims related to liability or workers' compensation arising out of the spread of infectious disease or pandemic; claims relating to molestation by an employee or a volunteer of an insured; claims that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative traumatic head injury from sports or other causes), resulting in liability or workers' compensation claims; claims alleging that one or more of our underwriting criteria have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the law, including the fair housing act; claims arising out of techniques to expand access to oil and gas resources, such as hydraulic fracturing; claims arising out of the use of personal cars, homes or other property in commercial transactions, such as ride or home sharing; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies or business models or processes; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions, including higher frequency and severity of weather-related events. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in recent 58 table of contents years, pension and hedge funds and other entities with substantial available capital and potentially lower return objectives have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses. well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, as well as competitors that can take advantage of more favorable tax domiciles than the united states, may conduct business in ways that adversely impact our business volumes and profitability. further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely significantly on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels, not only in personal lines (where we currently and may increasingly compete against direct writers), but also in commercial lines (where direct writers may become a more significant source of competition in the future, particularly in the small commercial market). consolidation within the insurance industry also could alter the competitive environment in which we operate, which may impact our business volumes and/or the rates or terms of our products. in personal insurance, the use of comparative rating technologies has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business as well as the industry as a whole. a substantial amount of the company's personal insurance new business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative rating technologies, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. because the use of this technology, whether by agents or directly by customers, facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. it also has resulted in an increase in the level of quote activity and a lower percentage of quotes that result in new business from customers, and these trends may continue or accelerate. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, similar technology is starting to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business and that trend may continue or accelerate. significant technology companies or other third parties have created, and may in the future create, digitally-enabled alternate distribution channels for personal or commercial business that may adversely impact our competitive position. these alternative distribution channels may compete with us directly by providing, or arranging to provide, insurance coverage themselves. see also "disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us" below. other technological changes may present competitive risks. for example, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and may become an increasingly important competitive factor. other potential technological changes, such as driverless cars, assisted-driving technologies or technologies that facilitate ride or home sharing, could disrupt the demand for our products from current customers, create coverage issues or impact the frequency or severity of losses, and we may not be able to respond effectively. in addition, our competitive position could be impacted if we are unable to deploy, in a cost effective manner, technology that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called "big data" analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions. see also "our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology" below. competitive dynamics may impact the success of efforts to improve our underwriting margins on our insurance products. these efforts could include seeking improved rates, as well as improved terms and conditions, and could also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs. these efforts may not be successful and/or may result in lower retention and new business levels and therefore lower business volumes. in addition, if our underwriting is not effective, further efforts to increase rates could also lead to "adverse selection", whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost. for more detail, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations outlook." 59 table of contents in particular, in recent years, we have undertaken various actions to improve our underwriting margins in our agency automobile line of business. see "item 1 business personal insurance competition" above for a description of some of these actions, including the offer of a new, more competitively-priced product. these factors include (i) changes in customer preferences and demand for direct distribution channels, (ii) utilization of comparative rating technologies by agents and/or technology companies and (iii) other technological changes, as described above. if our strategies to increase profitability in the agency automobile line of business do not continue to be effective, we may need to explore other actions or initiatives to improve our competitive position and profitability in this line of business. overall, our competitive position in our various businesses is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to profitably price our business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and client relationships; ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems; speed of claims payment; ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; ability to adapt to changes in business models, customer preferences or regulation impacting the markets in which we operate; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us . we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with, and fees paid to, some agents and brokers, and/or otherwise negatively impact the pricing or distribution of our products. agents and brokers may increasingly compete with us to the extent that markets increasingly provide them with direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk. see also "the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability." in all of the foregoing situations, loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new products or distribution channels, which could disrupt our relationships with our agents and brokers. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate 60 table of contents distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. access to greater levels of data and increased utilization of technology by agents and brokers may also impact our relationship with them and our competitive position. our efforts or their efforts with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize data and technology, could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see "if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted" below. customers in the past have brought claims against us for the actions of our agents. even with proper controls in place, actual or alleged errors or inaccuracies by our agents could result in our involvement in disputes, litigation or regulatory actions related to actions taken or not taken by our agents. we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to certain structured settlements. structured settlements are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. if it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, we would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. many life insurance companies were negatively impacted by the financial markets disruption and the economic downturn beginning in 2008. a number of these companies, including certain of those with which we conduct business or to which we otherwise have credit exposure, were downgraded by various rating agencies during this time period. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see 61 table of contents "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. in addition, certain countries, particularly in europe, recently have been pressuring the u.s. to reduce its regulatory requirements for u.s. ceding companies to obtain collateral from reinsurers located outside the united states which, if successful, could make it more difficult for u.s. companies, including us, to obtain sufficient collateral, if any, in such reinsurance arrangements. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business and investment operations including reinsurance or structured settlements. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations, including exposure to large customers who may have obligations to multiple third parties. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under casualty insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks, surety bonds or cash. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. 62 table of contents to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. further, the amount of collateral protection we have been able to obtain on the business we write in certain markets has decreased, and may continue to decrease, as a result of competition. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. in addition, several states restrict the timing and/or the ability of an insurer to discontinue writing a line of business or to cancel or non-renew certain policies. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. included in these changes is an amendment to insurance holding company regulations that require insurers who are part of a holding company system to file an enterprise risk report to provide the lead insurance regulator with a summary of the company's enterprise risk management (erm) framework including the material risks within the insurance holding company system that could pose risk to the insurance entities within the holding company system. insurers having premium volume above certain thresholds, including the company, are also required to perform at least annually a self-assessment of their current and future risks, including their likely future solvency position (known as an own risk and solvency assessment or orsa) and file a confidential report with the insurer's lead insurance regulator. the orsa concept has two primary goals, which are to foster an effective level of erm at all insurers within the holding company system, and to provide a group wide perspective on risk and capital as a supplement to the legal entity view. orsa is now included in the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) standards and is in various stages of implementation in the united states, europe, canada, and other jurisdictions. it is possible that, as a result of orsa and the manner in which it may be used by insurance regulators, our states of domicile or other regulatory bodies may require changes in our erm process (e.g., prescribe the use of specific models or the application of certain assumptions in the company's models) that have the effect of limiting our ability to write certain risks, limit our risk appetite to write additional business or reduce our capital management flexibility. see "enterprise risk management" herein for further discussion of the company's erm. the naic and state insurance regulators, as well as the federal reserve and federal insurance office, are currently working with the iais to develop a global common framework (comframe) for 63 table of contents the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs). if adopted, comframe would require the designation of a group-wide supervisor (regulator) for each iaig and would impose a group capital requirement that would be applied to an iaig in addition to the current legal entity capital requirements imposed by state insurance regulators. in response to comframe, the naic is developing a model law that would allow state insurance regulators in the u.s. to be designated as group-wide supervisors for u.s. based iaigs. additionally, the naic is developing a group capital standard that would be applied to u.s. based insurance groups. these regulatory developments could increase the amount of capital that the company is required to have and could result in the company being subject to increased regulatory requirements. in a time of financial uncertainty or a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations. for example, insurance regulators may choose to restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies or reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital and surplus requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, may be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. state laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results. while the u.s. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office (fio) within the u.s. department of the treasury. the fio has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers. in december 2013, the fio released a report recommending ways to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states. while the report did not recommend full federal regulation of insurance, it did suggest an expanded federal role in some circumstances. in addition, the report suggested that congress should consider direct federal involvement to fill regulatory gaps identified in the report, should those gaps persist, for example, by considering either establishing a federal coordinating body or a direct regulator of select aspects of the industry, such as large complex institutions or institutions that seek a federal charter, if a law is passed to allow a federal charter. it is not clear as to the extent, if any, the report will lead to regulatory changes or how any such changes would impact the company. the dodd-frank act also gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of nonbank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the fsoc) as "systemically important financial institutions" (sifi) or own a bank or thrift. the fsoc, chaired by the secretary of the treasury, is a group of federal financial regulators, a state insurance regulator and an independent insurance expert. the fsoc considers companies for designation as a sifi annually and finalized its first set of sifi designations in 2013. the company, based upon the fsoc's rules and interpretive guidance, has not been designated as a sifi. nonetheless, it is possible that the council may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as a sifi, the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose significant burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other insurers that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. changes in the u.s. regulatory framework could 64 table of contents impact the overall competitive environment by imposing additional burdens on us and allowing other competitors not subject to these same burdens to enter or expand their insurance businesses. even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, including the dodd-frank act, could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. in particular, the dodd-frank act authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation) and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies periodically review insurers' ratings and change their ratings criteria; therefore, our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into, maintain or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. see also "during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected." for further discussion about our ratings, see "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our u.s. insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory capital and surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to state insurance regulation as an insurance holding company system. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, insurance regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. 65 table of contents the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. this includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: we may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured, contain new coverage or coverage terms or contain different commission terms. we may refine our underwriting processes. we may seek to expand distribution channels. we may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. among other risks: demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. to the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated or effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. this, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins. to develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. if our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize proprietary and third party models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry data and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of: interest rates, inflation, capital requirements, and 66 table of contents frequency and severity of losses, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. third party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. as a result, third party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. as we expand into different markets and geographies, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets and geographies, and, accordingly, we may be more susceptible to error in our models and strategy. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits or perform as expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties, additional costs or accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, including with respect to the technology portfolio of our recently acquired businesses, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security, outsourcing relationships, or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis, particularly if such an interruption lasts for an extended period of time. in the event of a computer virus or disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, including cloud-based, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service 67 table of contents exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. business interruptions and failures of controls could also result if our internal systems do not interface with each other as intended, including as it relates to recently acquired businesses. business continuity can also be disrupted by an event, such as a pandemic, that renders large numbers of a workforce unable to work as needed, particularly at critical locations; for example, our largest location employs about 20% of our employees. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers (including individuals, organizations or rogue states) and employee or vendor misconduct, and other external hazards, could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. like other global companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses, malware or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material cyber-security breach. however, over time, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. our administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to detect or prevent unauthorized access, other physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. in addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks. we have increasingly outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may continue to do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, third party providers do not perform as anticipated, we experience technological or other problems with a transition, or outsourcing relationships relevant to our business process functions are terminated, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security or service disruptions, which could result in monetary and reputational damages or harm to our competitive position. in addition to risks caused by third party providers, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or public policy inside or outside of the united states. the increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages, competitive disadvantage and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under evolving cyber-security, data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the u.s. federal and state governments, canada, the european union or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. as a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. 68 table of contents we are also subject to a number of additional risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in canada, the united kingdom and the republic of ireland. in addition, we conduct business in brazil, primarily through a joint venture, and we have an indirect interest in a joint venture in colombia. we may also explore opportunities in other countries, including other latin american countries and other emerging markets such as india. in conducting business outside of the united states, we are also subject to a number of additional risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions or requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. following the completion of our acquisition of dominion, a larger portion of our premiums from outside of the united states is generated in canada, a substantial portion of which consists of automobile premiums from the province of ontario, which is a highly regulated market. our business activities outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk, or we may choose not to hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment. our business activities outside the united states could subject us to increased volatility in earnings resulting from the need to recognize and subsequently revise a valuation allowance associated with income taxes if we became unable to fully utilize any deferred tax assets, including loss carry-forwards from those foreign operations. also, political instability, particularly in emerging economies, could result in financial market disruption or an economic downturn in such regions. our business activities outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture, and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. in addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets and other non-u.s. locations may be intense. if we are not able to hire, integrate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of employees with the knowledge and background necessary for our global businesses, those businesses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. regulatory changes outside of the united states, including in canada and the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, implemented new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii on january 1, 2016 that apply to 69 table of contents the company's businesses across the european union. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. company is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where the company has operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and with the naic, the federal reserve and fio in the u.s.) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision and group capital requirements. in july 2013, the iais published a methodology for identifying "global systemically important insurers" (g-siis) and high level policy measures that will apply to the g-siis. the methodology and measures were endorsed by the financial stability board (fsb) created by the g-20. using the iais methodology, the fsb, working with national authorities and the iais, identified nine insurers that they designated as g-siis. the iais is working on the policy measures which include higher capital requirements and enhanced supervision. the company has not been designated as a g-sii by the fsb; however, the fsb updates the list annually, and it is possible that the methodologies could be amended or interpreted differently in the future and the company could be named as a g-sii. the iais also is in the process of developing the common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (comframe). the iais released a consultation draft in october 2013, which may lead to similar policy measures as those being developed for g-siis, including group supervision and an insurance capital standard (i.e., global group capital requirement). the iais revised the comframe guidance based on comments received and is currently in the process of field testing many of the requirements. the company would be considered an internationally active insurance group under the current consultation draft. it is possible that comframe, if adopted, could lead to enhanced supervision and higher capital standards on a global basis if the iais, the naic and the individual states adopt the proposed or similar provisions. while it is not yet known how or if these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management, and could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. loss of or significant restrictions on the use of particular types of underwriting criteria, such as credit scoring, or other data or methodologies, in the pricing and underwriting of our products could reduce our future profitability. our underwriting profitability depends in large part on our ability to competitively price our products at a level that will adequately compensate us for the risks assumed. as a result, risk selection and pricing through the application of actuarially sound and segmented underwriting criteria is critical. however, laws or regulations, or judicial or administrative findings, could significantly curtail the use of particular types of underwriting criteria. for example, we may use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and/or regulators have alleged that the use of credit scoring violates the law by discriminating against persons belonging to a protected class and are calling for the prohibition or restrictions on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. a variety of other underwriting criteria and other data or methodologies used in personal and commercial insurance have been and continue to be criticized by regulators, government agencies, consumer groups or individuals on similar or other grounds. resulting regulatory actions or litigation could result in negative publicity and/or generate adverse rules or findings, such as curtailing the use of important underwriting criteria, or other data or methodologies, each of which could adversely affect our future profitability. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition justify the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business 70 table of contents can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of, or other difficulties with, underwriting, risk management, claims handling, information technology and actuarial practices; uncertainties related to an acquiree's reserve estimates and its design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact on our financial position and/or credit ratings. acquired businesses may not perform as projected, any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated. acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial costs or delays and adversely affecting our ability to compete. accordingly, our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk), errors in financial reporting or damage to our reputation. in addition, ineffective controls, including with respect to any joint ventures or recently acquired businesses, could lead to litigation or regulatory action. the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against various types of financial institutions have increased in recent years. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse financial impact. see note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements herein for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized underwriting knowledge. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals, including our senior executives (many of whom have decades of experience in the insurance industry), and the board of directors regularly engages in succession discussions. see "item 10 directors, executive officers and corporate governance" for more information relating to our executive officers, including our senior leaders. for many of our senior positions, we compete for talent not just with insurance or financial service companies, but with other large companies and other businesses. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully 71 table of contents attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others. our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary trademarks, technology and other intellectual property. see "item 1 other information intellectual property." we may not, however, be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use and disclosure by others. further, the intellectual property laws may not prevent our competitors from independently developing trademarks, products and services that are similar to ours. moreover, the agreements we execute to protect our intellectual property rights may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies in response. our attempts to patent or register our intellectual property rights in the u.s. and worldwide may not succeed initially or may later be challenged by third parties. further, the laws of certain countries outside the united states may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. we may incur significant costs in our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the initiation of expensive and protracted litigation, and we may not prevail. any inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties from time to time that our products, services and technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. in recent years, certain entities have acquired patents in order to allege claims of infringement against companies, including in some cases, us. any intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of the merits of the claims. if we are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights, it could result in reputational harm, payment of significant monetary damages, payment of license fees (if licenses are even available to us, on reasonable terms or otherwise) and/or substantial time and expense to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid the infringement. in addition, we use third party software in some of our products, services and technologies. if any of our software vendors or licensors are faced with infringement claims, we may lose our ability to use such software until the dispute is resolved. if we cannot successfully redesign an infringing product, service or technology (or procure a substitute version), this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. changes to existing accounting standards may adversely impact our reported results. as a u.s.-based sec registrant, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (u.s. gaap), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board (fasb), subject to the accounting-related rules and interpretations of the securities and exchange commission (sec). during the last several years, the sec has been evaluating whether, when and how international financial reporting standards (ifrs) should be incorporated into the u.s. financial reporting system, including for companies such as us. in december 2014, the sec indicated that it plans to explore allowing ifrs financial statements or financial information as supplemental information in sec filings. the fasb and the international accounting standards board (iasb) have been working on a long-term project to converge u.s. gaap and ifrs, which included a project on insurance accounting. while the fasb decided during 2014 to retain current u.s. gaap for property and casualty insurance contracts, the iasb is continuing its development of a new model that is significantly different than current u.s. gaap. we are not able to predict whether we will choose to, or be required to, adopt ifrs or how the adoption of ifrs (or the convergence of u.s. gaap and ifrs, including the project on the accounting for insurance contracts) may impact our financial statements in the future. changes in accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to insurance company operations, may 72 table of contents impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could cause increased volatility in reported earnings, resulting in other adverse impacts on the company's ratings and cost of capital, and decrease the understandability of our financial results as well as the comparability of our reported results with other insurers. changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us. tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us. for example, federal tax legislation could be enacted to reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35%, which would, accordingly, reduce any u.s. deferred tax asset. the amount of any net deferred tax asset is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, along with other changes in the tax rules that may increase the company's actual tax expense, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. our investment portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, such legislation could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, particularly changes to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (which comprise 45% of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2015) could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds. other tax law changes could adversely impact us. the size of the federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2015. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2015 and 2014 was $70.47 billion and $73.26 billion, respectively, of which 86% and 87% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2015 and 2014, approximately 7.4% and 8.7%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. for additional information regarding the company's investments, see notes 3 and 4 of notes to the consolidated financial statements herein as well as the "investment portfolio" and "outlook" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt see note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements herein as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets, insurance reserves and shareholders' equity denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 4.4% and 5.2% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.1% and 2.2% of total invested assets at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2015 and 2014 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. included in the company's fixed maturity, equity security and other investment portfolios are exposures to the energy sector. the company's fixed maturity portfolio at december 31, 2015 included $1.70 billion of securities issued by companies in the energy sector. approximately 92% of those fixed maturity investments are rated at investment-grade with an average credit rating of "a2," with integrated oil and gas companies representing the largest single industry. the company's equity 158 table of contents securities portfolio at december 31, 2015 included $274 million of holdings directly related to the energy sector, with the majority of holdings concentrated in the energy infrastructure sector. included in other investments at december 31, 2015 were energy-focused private equity funds totaling $330 million, which are diversified across 52 separate private equity funds. the energy sector has been under pressure due to the lower price of oil. a prolonged downturn in the energy sector could impact the value of the company's investment portfolio, reduce net investment income and could result in realized and/or unrealized investment losses on these holdings. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2015 and 2014. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2015 and 2014 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.00 billion and $1.77 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. 159 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $522 million and $635 million at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 160 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including without limitation our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates." catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and other naturally-occurring events, such as solar flares. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events, cyber-attacks, explosions and infrastructure failures. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states and canada, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes and hail storms throughout the central, mid-atlantic and southeastern regions of the united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in western states and canada; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition to our operations in the united states and canada, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom, the republic of ireland and brazil as well as to a variety of world-wide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations. 44 table of contents the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. severe weather events over the last two decades have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends, and potentially changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, over the last two decades, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced by us, and demographic changes have resulted in larger populations in coastal areas which historically have been subject to severe storms and related storm surge, thus expanding our potential for losses from hurricanes. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornado and hail storms in the united states have been more volatile during the last decade. moreover, we could experience more than one severe catastrophic event in any given period. all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to evaluate certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer and may be even less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. as a result, models for earthquakes and tornado and hail storms may have even greater difficulty predicting risks and estimating losses. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. as compared to natural catastrophes, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism, is even more difficult and less reliable, and for some events, currently there are no reliable modeling techniques. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event, the severity of the event and the coverage provided, which can be both property and casualty coverages. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, the number of policyholders exposed to certain events and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies or seek to prevent the application of deductibles. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited 45 table of contents due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also factors that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; late reported claims; litigation; and reinsurance collectability. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted in subsequent periods as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in which we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations and the program is scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020. under current provisions of this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 83% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.45 billion for 2017. over the remaining four-year life of the reauthorized program, the federal government reimbursement percentage will fall from 83% to 80%. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. for example, application of the law to a specific event will depend upon whether the government has designated such event as a covered event. it is also possible that future legislation could change or eliminate the program, which could adversely affect our business by increasing our exposure to terrorism losses, or by lowering our business volume through efforts to avoid that exposure. for a further description of the terrorism risk insurance program, see note 5 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural or man-made events, such as a terrorist attack or other intentionally destructive acts, including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events or cyber-attacks, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising from a high frequency of high severity natural catastrophes and/or of man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means. in addition, while 46 table of contents we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving "unconventional" means, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, including as a result of, among other things, changes in the legal, regulatory and economic environments in which the company operates, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures and technology changes which may impact medical, auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general and wage inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). it is possible that, among other things, past or future steps taken by the federal government to stimulate the u.s. economy, including tax reform and changes in international trade regulation, such as the potential for a destination-based, border-adjustable consumption tax system and/or tariffs, could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail," such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. in addition, a significant portion of claims costs, including those in "long tail" lines of business, consists of medical costs. changes in healthcare legislation could significantly impact the availability, cost and allocation of payments for medical services, and it is possible that, as a result, inflationary pressures in medical costs may increase or claim frequency and/or severity may otherwise be adversely impacted. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties, increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. in addition, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may be influenced by other external factors, including continued intensive advertising by plaintiff attorneys. we continually refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled, and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other 47 table of contents members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, could vary significantly from period to period, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." during or following a period of financial market disruption or an economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. worldwide financial markets and economic conditions have, from time to time, experienced significant disruption or deterioration and likely will experience periods of disruption or deterioration in the future. if financial markets experience significant disruption or if economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity likely would be adversely impacted. for example, financial market disruptions and economic downturns have resulted in, among other things, reduced business volume, as well as heightened credit risk and reduced valuations for certain of our investments. an inflationary environment, as a result of government efforts to stabilize the economy after a disruption or otherwise, may also, as we discuss in risk factors above, adversely impact our loss costs and the valuation of our investment portfolio. financial market disruption or an economic downturn could be exacerbated by actual or potential economic and geopolitical instability in many regions of the world. this can impact our business even if we do not conduct business in the region subject to the instability. for example, due to globalization, instability in one region can spread to other regions where we do business. in europe, uncertainty in recent years has included the increased potential for default by one or more european sovereign debt issuers, the potential partial or complete dissolution of the eurozone and its common currency and the negative impact of such potential events on global financial institutions and capital markets generally. actions or inactions of european governments, including the united kingdom's expected withdrawal from the european union, may impact these actual or perceived risks. in the united states, future actions or inactions of the united states government may also impact economic conditions. for example, the new u.s. administration may address issues related to the u.s. federal budget and taxes, the national debt, international trade, the affordable care act and regulation generally differently than the prior u.s. administration, all of which may contribute, positively or negatively, to economic conditions generally and create economic uncertainty. several of the risk factors discussed above and below identify risks that could result from, or be exacerbated by, financial market disruption, an economic slowdown or economic uncertainty. these include risks discussed above related to our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, and those discussed below related to our investment portfolio, the competitive environment, emerging claim and coverage issues, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, regulatory developments 48 table of contents and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," particularly the "outlook" section, for additional information about these risks and the potential impact on our business. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and interest rate risk, and may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 93% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2016. changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value. during 2016, the net pre-tax unrealized gain in our fixed income portfolio decreased from $1.78 billion to $865 million as interest rates increased. any future increases in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) would result in a further decline in that unrealized gain position or in an unrealized loss, thereby adversely impacting our book value. interest rates in recent years have been and remain at very low levels relative to historical experience, and it is possible that rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is also subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default. rapid changes in commodity prices, such as a significant decline in oil prices, could also subject certain of our investments to a higher risk of default. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: in recent years, many state and local governments have been operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations and other postretirement obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. some issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness 49 table of contents of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue. the collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. approximately 30% of the fixed maturity portfolio is expected to mature over the next three years (this includes the early redemption of bonds, assuming interest rates (including credit spreads) do not rise significantly by applicable call dates). for a schedule of the contractual maturities of our fixed maturity portfolio by year for the next several years, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investment portfolio." of that maturing portfolio, a substantial amount includes municipal bonds that have been pre-refunded with u.s. treasury securities. as a result, even if our investment strategy does not significantly change over the next few years, the overall yield on and composition of our portfolio could be meaningfully impacted by the types of investments available for reinvestment with the proceeds of matured bonds. for example, if yields remain low when we reinvest such proceeds, our future net investment income would be adversely affected. in addition, depending on the specific bonds available for purchase at the time of re-investment, the mix of specific issuers in our fixed-income and municipal bond portfolio will change. our portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions (such as those related to interest from municipal bonds) and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. see "changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us" below. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate and real estate partnerships, all of which could be adversely impacted by declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships. from time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including investments with exposure to commodity price risk, such as oil. all of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. from time to time, the company enters into short positions in u.s. treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio, which can result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. given that economic and market conditions have been and could be highly uncertain, we may, depending on circumstances in the future, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio. these changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. 50 table of contents because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we have received and continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from policyholders (including others seeking coverage under a policy). factors underlying these claim filings include continued intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation, has contributed to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we experienced. we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we have received and continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims arise under various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla and similar state laws may be imposed on certain parties even if they did not cause the release or threatened release of hazardous substances and may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to asbestos and environmental claims. the company believes that some court 51 table of contents decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; the emergence of a greater number of asbestos claims than anticipated as a result of extended life expectancies resulting from medical advances and lifestyle improvements; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes concerning coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these disputes; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; any impact on asbestos defendants we insure due to the bankruptcy of other asbestos defendants; the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." the intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers which may 52 table of contents offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in recent years, pension and hedge funds and other entities with substantial available capital and potentially lower return objectives have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses. well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, as well as competitors that can take advantage of more favorable tax domiciles than the united states, may conduct business in ways that adversely impact our business volumes and profitability. further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely significantly on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels, not only in personal lines (where we currently and may increasingly compete against direct writers), but also in commercial lines (where direct writers may become a more significant source of competition in the future, particularly in the small commercial market). consolidation within the insurance industry also could alter the competitive environment in which we operate, which may impact our business volumes and/or the rates or terms of our products. in personal insurance, the use of comparative rating technologies has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business as well as the industry as a whole. a substantial amount of the company's personal insurance new business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative rating technologies, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. because the use of this technology, whether by agents or directly by customers, facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. it also has resulted in an increase in the level of quote activity and a lower percentage of quotes that result in new business from customers, and these trends may continue or accelerate. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our business volume and underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, similar technology is starting to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business and that trend may continue or accelerate. technology companies or other third parties have created, and may in the future create, digitally-enabled alternate distribution channels for personal or commercial business that may adversely impact our competitive position. these alternative distribution channels may compete with us directly by providing, or arranging to provide, insurance coverage themselves. see also "disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us" below. other technological changes may present competitive risks. for example, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and may become an increasingly important competitive factor. in addition, our competitive position could be impacted if we are unable to deploy, in a cost effective manner, technology that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called "big data" analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions, or if our competitors collect and use data which we do not have the ability to access or use. see also "our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology" below. competitive dynamics may impact the success of efforts to improve our underwriting margins on our insurance products. these efforts could include seeking improved rates, as well as improved terms and conditions, and could also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs. these efforts may not be successful and/or may result in lower retention and new business levels and therefore lower business volumes. in addition, if our underwriting is not effective, further efforts to increase rates could also lead to "adverse selection", whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost. for more detail, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations outlook." 53 table of contents similar to other industries, the insurance industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological and other change. traditional insurance industry participants, technology companies, "insurtech" start-up companies, the number of which has increased significantly in recent years, and others are focused on using technology and innovation to simplify and improve the customer experience, increase efficiencies, redesign products, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the insurance industry. if we do not anticipate, keep pace with and adapt to technological and other changes impacting the insurance industry, it could harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products to customers, and materially and adversely affect our business. furthermore, innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences in the markets in which we operate also pose risks to our business. for example, technologies such as driverless vehicles, assisted-driving technologies, technologies that facilitate ride or home sharing, smart homes or automation could reduce the demand for certain of our products, create coverage issues or impact the frequency or severity of losses, and we may not be able to respond effectively. overall, our competitive position in our various businesses is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to profitably price our business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and policyholder relationships; ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems; speed of claims payment; ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; ability to adapt to changes in business models, technology, customer preferences or regulation impacting the markets in which we operate; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition or technological or other changes to the markets in which we operate limit our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us . we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with, and fees paid to, some agents and brokers, and/or otherwise negatively impact the pricing or distribution of our products. agents and brokers may increasingly compete with us to the extent that markets increasingly provide them with direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk. see also "the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability." in all of the foregoing situations, loss 54 table of contents of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new products or distribution channels, which could disrupt our relationships with our agents and brokers. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. access to greater levels of data and increased utilization of technology by agents and brokers may also impact our relationship with them and our competitive position. in certain markets, brokers increasingly have been packaging portfolios of risks together and offering them to a narrower range of carriers as well as, in some cases, requesting a commitment to participate in such portfolios in advance. our efforts or their efforts with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize data and technology, could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see "if we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted" below. customers in the past have brought claims against us for the actions of our agents. even with proper controls in place, actual or alleged errors or inaccuracies by our agents could result in our involvement in disputes, litigation or regulatory actions related to actions taken or not taken by our agents. we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, such as lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business, including by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number, 55 table of contents size or types of claims or by mandating changes to our underwriting practices. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new or expanded theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; failed financial institutions; fraud; improper sales practices; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; claims related to data and network security breaches, information system failures or cyber-attacks, including cases where coverage was not intended to be provided; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; claims related to liability or workers' compensation arising out of the spread of infectious disease or pandemic; claims relating to abuse by an employee or a volunteer of an insured; claims that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative traumatic head injury from sports or other causes), resulting in liability or workers' compensation claims; claims alleging that one or more of our underwriting criteria have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the law, including the fair housing act; claims arising out of modern techniques and practices used in connection with the extraction of natural resources, such as hydraulic fracturing or wastewater injection; claims arising out of the use of personal cars, homes or other property in commercial transactions, such as ride or home sharing; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies or business models or processes, including as a result of related behavioral changes; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions, including higher frequency and severity of weather-related events. in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 56 table of contents we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all and we are exposed to credit risk related to our structured settlements. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to certain structured settlements. structured settlements are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. some of the life insurance companies from which we have purchased structured settlements have been downgraded to below investment grade credit ratings subsequent to the time of the purchase. if it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, we would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. in addition, certain countries, particularly in europe, recently have been pressuring the u.s. to reduce its regulatory requirements for u.s. ceding companies to obtain collateral from reinsurers located outside the united states which, if successful, could make it more difficult for u.s. companies, including us, to obtain sufficient collateral, if any, in such reinsurance arrangements. because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are also exposed to credit risk in certain of our insurance operations and with respect to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or 57 table of contents certain financial obligations, including exposure to large customers who may have obligations to multiple third parties. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under casualty insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the settled claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation and/or general liability policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks, surety bonds or cash. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. further, the amount of collateral protection we have been able to obtain on the business we write in certain markets has decreased, and may continue to decrease, as a result of competition. we are also exposed to credit risk related to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. see note 16 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. in addition, several states restrict the timing and/or the ability of an insurer to discontinue writing a line of business or to cancel or non-renew certain policies. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting 58 table of contents limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business including, most recently, cyber-security. the state insurance regulatory framework has been under continuing scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. as part of these changes, insurance holding company regulations were amended to require insurers who are part of a holding company system to file an enterprise risk report to provide the lead insurance regulator with a summary of the company's enterprise risk management (erm) framework including the material risks within the insurance holding company system that could pose risk to the insurance entities within the holding company system. insurers having premium volume above certain thresholds, including the company, are also required to perform at least annually a self-assessment of their current and future risks, including their likely future solvency position (known as an own risk and solvency assessment or orsa) and file a confidential report with the insurer's lead insurance regulator. the requirement for an insurer to conduct an orsa is intended to foster an effective level of erm at all insurers within a holding company system, and to provide a group-wide perspective on risk and capital as a supplement to the legal entity view. orsa is now included in the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) standards and is in various stages of implementation in the united states, europe, canada, and other jurisdictions. it is possible that, as a result of orsa and the manner in which it may be used by insurance regulators, our states of domicile or other regulatory bodies may require changes in our erm process (e.g., prescribe the use of specific models or the application of certain assumptions in the company's models) that have the effect of limiting our ability to write certain risks, limit our risk appetite to write additional business or reduce our capital management flexibility. see "enterprise risk management" for further discussion of the company's erm. the naic and state insurance regulators, as well as the federal reserve and federal insurance office, are currently working with the iais to develop a global common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs). if adopted, comframe would require the designation of a group-wide supervisor (regulator) for each iaig and would impose a group capital requirement that would be applied to an iaig in addition to the current legal entity capital requirements imposed by state insurance regulators. in response to comframe, the naic developed a model law that allows state insurance regulators in the u.s. to be designated as group-wide supervisors for u.s. based iaigs. additionally, the naic is developing a group capital analytical tool that would be applied to u.s. based insurance groups in addition to the risk-based capital (rbc) requirement that is applied on a legal entity basis. these regulatory developments could increase the amount of capital that the company is required to have and could result in the company being subject to increased regulatory requirements. regulators may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations that could, among other things, restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to distribute funds to their parent companies or they could reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital and surplus requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, could be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. state laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. 59 table of contents a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies periodically review insurers' ratings and change their ratings criteria; therefore, our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into, maintain or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. see also "during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected." for further discussion about our ratings, see "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our u.s. insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory capital and surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to state insurance regulation as an insurance holding company system. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, insurance regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. a number of our recent and planned business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. this includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share: we may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured, contain new coverage or coverage terms or contain different commission terms. we may refine our underwriting processes. we may seek to expand distribution channels. we may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. 60 table of contents we may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. among other risks: demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations. to the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated or effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. this, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations. models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective. efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us." in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins. to develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term. if our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize proprietary and third party models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry data and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of: frequency and severity of losses, inflation, interest rates and capital requirements, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. third party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. as a result, third party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing models to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new 61 table of contents business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. as we expand into different markets and geographies, we will write more policies in markets and geographical areas where we have less data specific to these new markets and geographies, and, accordingly, we may be more susceptible to error in our models and strategy. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business, and thus our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits or perform as expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties, additional costs or accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to, and conduct business with, new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships, or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis, particularly if such an interruption lasts for an extended period of time. in the event of a computer virus or disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, including cloud-based, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. business interruptions and failures of controls could also result if our internal systems do not interface with each other as intended. business continuity can also be disrupted by an event, such as a pandemic, that renders large numbers of a workforce unable to work as needed, particularly at critical locations; for example, our largest location employs about 20% of our employees. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers (including individuals, organizations or rogue states) and employee or vendor misconduct, and other external hazards, could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure 62 table of contents capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. like other global companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses, malware or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material cyber-security breach. however, over time, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. our administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to detect or prevent unauthorized access, other physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. in addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks. we have outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may increasingly do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, if we experience technological or other problems with a transition, or if outsourcing relationships relevant to our business process functions are terminated, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security, service disruptions or the effectiveness of our control system, which could result in monetary and reputational damages or harm to our competitive position. see also "we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective." in addition to risks caused by third party providers, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or public policy inside or outside of the united states. the increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages, competitive disadvantage and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under evolving cyber-security, data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the u.s. federal and state governments, canada, the european union or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. as a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us. tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us. for example, federal tax legislation could be enacted to reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35%, which would, accordingly, reduce any u.s. deferred tax asset. the amount of any net deferred tax asset is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, along with other changes in the tax rules that may increase the company's actual tax expense, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, a reduction in the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate could increase the after-tax effect of future significant loss events and our after-tax borrowing costs. our investment portfolio has benefited from certain tax exemptions and certain other tax laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits (such as foreign tax credits). federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with 63 table of contents deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, such legislation could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, particularly changes to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (which comprise 45% of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2016), which could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds. other tax law changes could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. for example, budget constraints faced by many states and localities increase the likelihood that state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. in addition, any federal tax reform that is designed to reduce the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate in a "revenue neutral" manner could include other provisions that materially increase our taxable income or otherwise increase our cost of doing business. for example, potential tax reform in the united states could include a destination-based, border-adjustable consumption tax system and/or tariffs that could impact the cost of reinsurance and/or imported materials which could increase our loss costs. we are also subject to a number of additional risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in canada, the united kingdom and the republic of ireland. in addition, we conduct business in brazil, primarily through a joint venture, and we have an indirect interest in a joint venture in colombia. we may also explore opportunities in other countries, including other latin american countries and other emerging markets such as india. in conducting business outside of the united states, we are also subject to a number of additional risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions or requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. a portion of our premiums from outside of the united states is generated in canada, a substantial portion of which consists of automobile premiums from the province of ontario, which is a highly regulated market. our business activities outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk, or we may choose not to hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment and/or reputation. our business activities outside the united states could subject us to increased volatility in earnings resulting from the need to recognize and subsequently revise a valuation allowance associated with income taxes if we became unable to fully utilize any deferred tax assets, including loss carry-forwards from those foreign operations. also, political instability, particularly in emerging economies, and changing market conditions around the globe, could result in financial market disruption or an economic downturn in such regions. our business activities outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture, 64 table of contents and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. in addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets and other non-u.s. locations may be intense. if we are not able to hire, integrate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of employees with the knowledge and background necessary for our global businesses, those businesses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. regulatory changes outside of the united states, including in canada and the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, implemented new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii on january 1, 2016 that apply to the company's businesses across the european union. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. parent is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where the company has operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and with the naic, the federal reserve and fio in the u.s.) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision and group capital requirements. the iais has developed a methodology for identifying "global systemically important insurers" (g-siis) and high level policy measures that will apply to the g-siis. the methodology and measures were endorsed by the financial stability board (fsb) created by the g-20. using the iais methodology, the fsb, working with national authorities and the iais, identified nine insurers in november 2016 that they designated as g-siis. the iais is working on the policy measures which include higher capital requirements and enhanced supervision. the company has not been designated as a g-sii by the fsb; however, the fsb updates the list annually, and it is possible that the methodologies could be amended or interpreted differently in the future and the company could be named as a g-sii. the iais is also in the process of developing the common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (comframe). as the current draft of comframe is completed, it likely will lead to similar policy measures as those being developed for g-siis being made applicable to internationally active insurance groups (or "iaigs"), including group supervision, group capital requirements, and resolution planning, i.e., a written plan developed by a financial group detailing how it would be wound down in the event of an insolvency. the iais is currently in the process of field testing the group capital requirements. the company would be considered an internationally active insurance group under the current consultation draft. it is possible that comframe, if adopted, could lead to enhanced supervision and higher capital standards on a global basis if the iais, the naic and the individual states adopt the proposed or similar provisions. while it is not yet known how or if these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management, and could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. 65 table of contents loss of or significant restrictions on the use of particular types of underwriting criteria, such as credit scoring, or other data or methodologies, in the pricing and underwriting of our products could reduce our future profitability. our underwriting profitability depends in large part on our ability to competitively price our products at a level that will adequately compensate us for the risks assumed. as a result, risk selection and pricing through the application of actuarially sound and segmented underwriting criteria is critical. however, laws or regulations, or judicial or administrative findings, could significantly curtail the use of particular types of underwriting criteria. for example, we may use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and/or regulators have alleged that the use of credit scoring violates the law by discriminating against persons belonging to a protected class and are calling for the prohibition or restrictions on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. a variety of other underwriting criteria and other data or methodologies used in personal and commercial insurance have been and continue to be criticized by regulators, government agencies, consumer groups or individuals on similar or other grounds. resulting regulatory actions or litigation could result in negative publicity and/or generate adverse rules or findings, such as curtailing the use of important underwriting criteria, or other data or methodologies, each of which could adversely affect our future profitability. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may investigate and pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition justify the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of, or other difficulties with, underwriting, risk management, claims handling, information technology and actuarial practices; uncertainties related to an acquiree's reserve estimates and its design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities; difficulties in achieving the strategic objectives of an acquisition, including the business, financial, technological or distribution objectives; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact on our financial position and/or credit ratings. acquired businesses may not perform as projected, any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not materialize and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated. acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated, resulting in substantial costs or delays and adversely affecting our ability to compete. accordingly, our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will 66 table of contents be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk), errors in financial reporting or damage to our reputation. see also "if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security, outsourcing relationships, or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted." in addition, ineffective controls, including with respect to any joint ventures or recently acquired businesses, could lead to litigation or regulatory action. the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against various types of financial institutions have increased in recent years. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse financial impact. see note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees . there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized knowledge in areas such as underwriting, data and analytics, technology and e-commerce. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals, including our senior executives (many of whom have decades of experience in the insurance industry), and the board of directors regularly engages in succession discussions. see "item 10 directors, executive officers and corporate governance" for more information relating to our executive officers, including our senior leaders. for many of our senior positions, we compete for talent not just with insurance or financial service companies, but with other large companies and other businesses. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others. our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary trademarks, technology and other intellectual property. see "item 1 other information intellectual property." we may not, however, be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use and disclosure by others. further, the intellectual property laws may not prevent our competitors from independently developing trademarks, products and services that are similar to ours. moreover, the agreements we execute to protect our intellectual property rights may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies in response. our attempts to patent or register our intellectual property rights in the u.s. and worldwide may not succeed initially or may later be challenged by third parties. further, the laws of certain countries outside the united states may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. we may incur significant costs in our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the initiation of expensive and protracted litigation, and we may not prevail. any inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties from time to time that our products, services and technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. in recent years, certain entities have acquired patents in order to allege claims of infringement against companies, including in some cases, us. any intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of the merits of the claims. if we are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights, it could result in reputational harm, payment of significant monetary damages, payment of license fees (if licenses are even available to us, on reasonable terms or otherwise) and/or substantial time and expense to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid the infringement. in addition, we use third party software in some of our products, services and 67 table of contents technologies. if any of our software vendors or licensors are faced with infringement claims, we may lose our ability to use such software until the dispute is resolved. if we cannot successfully redesign an infringing product, service or technology (or procure a substitute version), this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office (fio) within the u.s. department of the treasury. the fio has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, but it has in the past recommended an expanded federal role in some circumstances. the dodd-frank act also gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of nonbank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the fsoc) as "systemically important financial institutions" (sifi) or own a bank or thrift. the company, based upon the fsoc's rules and interpretive guidance, has not been designated as a sifi and is not subject to regulation by the federal reserve. nonetheless, it is possible that fsoc may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as a sifi, the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. the dodd-frank act also authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of sifi's that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and, although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, including any changes thereto as a result of its current re-evaluation or otherwise, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose additional burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other competitors that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform, could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation) and potential changes in federal taxation, could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. changes to existing u.s. accounting standards may adversely impact our reported results. as a u.s.-based sec registrant, we are currently required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (u.s. gaap), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board (fasb), subject to the accounting rules and interpretations of the securities and exchange commission (sec). during the last several years, the sec has been evaluating whether, when and how international financial reporting standards (ifrs) should be incorporated into the u.s. financial reporting system, including for companies such as us. we are not able to predict whether we will choose, or be required, to adopt ifrs or how the adoption of ifrs (or any future efforts by the sec to converge u.s. gaap and ifrs) may impact our financial statements in the future. changes in u.s. accounting standards, particularly those that specifically apply to property and casualty insurance company operations, may impact the content and presentation of our reported financial results and could cause increased volatility in reported earnings, resulting in other adverse impacts on the company's ratings and cost of capital, and decrease the understandability of our financial results as well as the comparability of our reported results with other insurers. 68 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2016. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2016 and 2015 was $70.49 billion and $70.47 billion, respectively, of which 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. at december 31, 2016 and 2015, approximately 7.1% and 7.4%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. for additional information regarding the company's investments, see notes 3 and 4 of notes to the consolidated financial statements as well as the "investment portfolio" and "outlook" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt, see note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets, insurance reserves and shareholders' equity denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from 148 table of contents the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 4.4% of the total invested assets at both december 31, 2016 and 2015. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 1.9% and 2.1% of total invested assets at december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2016 and 2015 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2016 and 2015. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2016 and 2015 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.19 billion and $2.00 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 149 table of contents the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $502 million and $522 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 150 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including without limitation our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates." catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and other naturally-occurring events, such as solar flares. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological events, cyber events, explosions and destruction of infrastructure. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposures in the united states and canada, which include, but are not limited to: hurricanes from maine through texas; tornadoes and hail storms throughout the central, mid-atlantic and southeastern regions of the united states; earthquakes in california, the new madrid region and the pacific northwest region of north america; wildfires, particularly in western states and canada; and terrorism in major cities in the united states. in addition to our operations in the united states and canada, our international operations subject us to catastrophe exposures in the united kingdom, the republic of ireland and brazil as well as to a variety of worldwide catastrophe exposures through our lloyd's operations. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events could increase. severe weather events over the last two decades have underscored the unpredictability of future climate trends, and potentially changing climate conditions could add to the frequency and severity of natural disasters and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. for example, over the last two decades, hurricane activity has impacted areas further inland than previously experienced by us, and demographic changes have resulted in larger populations in coastal areas which historically have been subject to severe storms and related storm surge, thus expanding our potential for losses from hurricanes. demographic changes in areas prone to wildfires have also expanded our potential for losses from wildfires. additionally, both the frequency and severity of tornado and hail storms in the united states have been more volatile during the last decade. moreover, we could experience more than one severe catastrophic event in any given period. 46 table of contents all of the catastrophe modeling tools that we use, or that we rely on from outside parties, to evaluate certain of our catastrophe exposures are based on assumptions and judgments that are subject to error and mis-estimation and may produce estimates that are materially different than actual results. in addition, compared to models for hurricanes, models for earthquakes are less reliable due to there being a more limited number of significant historical events to analyze, while models for tornadoes and hail storms are newer and may be even less reliable due to the highly random geographic nature and size of these events. as a result, models for earthquakes and tornado and hail storms may have even greater difficulty predicting risks and estimating losses. further, changes in climate conditions could cause our underlying modeling data to be less predictive, thus limiting our ability to effectively evaluate and manage catastrophe risk. as compared to natural catastrophes, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism and cyber events, is even more difficult and less reliable, and for some events (both natural and man-made), currently there are no reliable modeling techniques. see "we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results" below as well as "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling" and " changing climate conditions." the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of the total amount of insured exposure affected by the event, the severity of the event and the coverage provided, which can be both property and casualty coverages. increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, the number of policyholders exposed to certain events and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. for example, the specific geographic location impacted by tornadoes is inherently random and unpredictable and the specific location impacted by a tornado may or may not be highly populated and may or may not have a high concentration of our insured exposures. similarly, the potential for losses from a cyber event can be larger to the extent that the event impacts platforms, systems or vulnerabilities shared by a large number of policyholders. states have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including us, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with our direct catastrophe exposure in those states. if our competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including us, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies or seek to prevent the application of deductibles. also, our ability to adjust terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal insurance segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. our ability or our willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. we also may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. there are also factors that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the limited availability of the necessary labor and supplies, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by 47 table of contents flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage; business interruption costs; late reported claims; litigation; and reinsurance collectability. the timing of a catastrophe's occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted in subsequent periods as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available. exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses resulting from a catastrophe could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, as a result of our exposure to catastrophe losses or actual losses following a catastrophe, rating agencies may further increase capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings. a ratings downgrade could hurt our ability to compete effectively or attract new business. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, see "item 1 business reinsurance catastrophe reinsurance." catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in which we have invested. in addition, coverage in our reinsurance program for terrorism is limited. although the terrorism risk insurance program provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations and the program is scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020. under current provisions of this program, once our losses exceed 20% of our commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 82% of our losses attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. our estimated deductible under the program is $2.46 billion for 2018. over the remaining three-year life of the reauthorized program, the federal government reimbursement percentage will fall from 82% to 80%. in addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. for example, application of the law to a specific event will depend upon whether the government has designated such event as a covered event. it is also possible that future legislation could change or eliminate the program, which could adversely affect our business by increasing our exposure to terrorism losses, or by lowering our business volume through efforts to avoid that exposure. for a further description of the terrorism risk insurance program, see note 5 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. because of the risks set forth above, catastrophes such as those caused by various natural or man-made events, such as a terrorist attack or other intentionally destructive acts, including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events or cyber events, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. further, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising from a high frequency of high-severity natural catastrophes and/or of man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means. in addition, while we seek to manage our exposure to man-made catastrophic events involving conventional means, we may not have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving "unconventional" means, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events. if actual claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, including as a result of, among other things, changes in the legal, regulatory and economic environments in which the company operates, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. claims and claim adjustment expense reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent 48 table of contents management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. the process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures and technology changes which may impact medical, auto and home repair costs; economic conditions including general and wage inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). it is possible that, among other things, past or future steps taken by the federal government and the federal reserve to stimulate the u.s. economy, including actions to manage interest rates, tax reform and changes in international trade regulation, could lead to higher inflation than we had anticipated, which could in turn lead to an increase in our loss costs. the impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail," such as general liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. in addition, a significant portion of claims costs, including those in "long tail" lines of business, consists of medical costs. changes in healthcare legislation could significantly impact the availability, cost and allocation of payments for medical services, and it is possible that, as a result, inflationary pressures in medical costs may increase or claim frequency and/or severity may otherwise be adversely impacted. the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties, increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims. in addition, the estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may be influenced by other external factors, including continued intensive advertising by plaintiff attorneys. we continually refine our claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops, additional claims are reported and settled, and the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. business judgment is applied throughout the process, including the application of various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. this risk may be exacerbated in the context of an acquisition. experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claim personnel and lawyers, as well as other members of management. therefore, management may have to consider varying individual viewpoints as part of its estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. we attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than is currently reserved. 49 table of contents because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, could vary significantly from period to period, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves." during or following a period of financial market disruption or an economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected. worldwide financial markets and economic conditions have, from time to time, experienced significant disruption or deterioration and likely will experience periods of disruption or deterioration in the future. if financial markets experience significant disruption or if economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity likely would be adversely impacted. for example, financial market disruptions and economic downturns in the past have resulted in, among other things, reduced business volume, as well as heightened credit risk and reduced valuations for certain of our investments. an inflationary environment, as a result of government efforts to stabilize the economy after a disruption or otherwise, may also, as we discuss in risk factors above, adversely impact our loss costs and the valuation of our investment portfolio. financial market disruption or an economic downturn could be exacerbated by actual or potential economic and geopolitical instability in many regions of the world. this can impact our business even if we do not conduct business in the region subject to the instability. for example, due to globalization, instability in one region can spread to other regions where we do business. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could have a negative impact on economic conditions in the united kingdom and could result in unintended consequences in other countries as well. in the united states, actions or inactions of the united states government may also impact economic conditions. for example, the recently enacted tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 as well as actions that may be taken by the u.s. administration to address the u.s. federal budget, the national debt, international trade, the affordable care act and regulation generally, among other things, may contribute, positively or negatively, to economic conditions generally and create economic and fiscal uncertainty. several of the risk factors discussed above and below identify risks that could result from, or be exacerbated by, financial market disruption, an economic slowdown or economic uncertainty. these include risks discussed above related to our estimates of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, and those discussed below related to our investment portfolio, the competitive environment, emerging claim and coverage issues, reinsurance arrangements, other credit exposures, regulatory developments and the impact of rating agency actions. you should also refer to "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," particularly the "outlook" section, for additional information about these risks and the potential impact on our business. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and interest rate risk, and may suffer reduced returns or material realized or unrealized losses. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. fixed maturity and short-term investments comprised approximately 93% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2017. changes in interest rates caused by inflation or other factors (inclusive of credit spreads) affect the carrying value of our fixed maturity investments and returns on our fixed maturity and short-term investments. a decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on short-term investments and new fixed maturity investments (including those purchased to re-invest maturities from the existing portfolio), thereby negatively impacting our 50 table of contents net investment income, while rising interest rates reduce the market value of existing fixed maturity investments, thereby negatively impacting our book value. during 2017, the net pre-tax unrealized gain in our fixed income portfolio increased from $865 million to $1.38 billion as interest rates decreased. any future increases in interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads) would result in a decline in that unrealized gain position or in an unrealized loss, thereby adversely impacting our book value. interest rates in recent years have been and remain at very low levels relative to historical experience, and it is possible that rates may remain at low levels for a prolonged period. the value of our fixed maturity and short-term investments is also subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. during an economic downturn, fixed maturity and short-term investments could be subject to a higher risk of default. rapid changes in commodity prices, such as a significant decline in oil prices, could also subject certain of our investments to a higher risk of default. our fixed maturity investment portfolio is invested, in substantial part, in obligations of states, municipalities and political subdivisions (collectively referred to as the municipal bond portfolio). notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default on many of these obligations and notwithstanding that we typically seek to invest in high-credit-quality securities (including those with structural protections such as being secured by dedicated or pledged sources of revenue), our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to default or impairment. in particular: in recent years, many state and local governments have been operating under deficits or projected deficits. the severity and duration of these deficits could have an adverse impact on the collectability and valuation of our municipal bond portfolio. these deficits may be exacerbated by the impact of unfunded pension plan obligations and other postretirement obligations or by declining municipal tax bases and revenues in times of financial stress. the recent tax reform also could lead state and local governments to decrease taxes, which could result in a deterioration of the credit quality of these state and local governments. some municipal bond issuers may be unwilling to increase tax rates, particularly in light of the recent tax reform, or to reduce spending, to fund interest or principal payments on their municipal bonds, or may be unable to access the municipal bond market to fund such payments. the risk of widespread defaults may increase if some issuers voluntarily choose to default, instead of implementing difficult fiscal measures, and the actual or perceived consequences (such as reduced access to capital markets) are less severe than expected. the risk of widespread defaults may also increase if there are changes in legislation that permit states, municipalities and political subdivisions to file for bankruptcy protection where they were not permitted before. in addition, the collectability and valuation of municipal bonds may be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that lessen the value of structural protections. for example, debtors may challenge the effectiveness of structural protections thought to be provided by municipal securities backed by a dedicated source of revenue. the collectability and valuation may also be adversely affected if there are judicial interpretations in a bankruptcy or other proceeding that question the payment priority of municipal bonds. approximately 30% of the fixed maturity portfolio is expected to mature over the next three years (this includes the early redemption of bonds, assuming interest rates (including credit spreads) do not rise significantly by applicable call dates). for a schedule of the contractual maturities of our fixed maturity portfolio by year for the next several years, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investment portfolio." as a result, even if 51 table of contents our investment strategy does not significantly change over the next few years, the overall yield on and composition of our portfolio could be meaningfully impacted by the types of investments available for reinvestment with the proceeds of matured bonds. for example, if yields decrease when we reinvest such proceeds, our future net investment income would be adversely affected. in addition, depending on the specific bonds available for purchase at the time of re-investment, the mix of specific issuers in our fixed-income and municipal bond portfolio will change. our portfolio has benefited from tax exemptions (such as those related to interest from municipal bonds) and certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. changes in these laws could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. see "changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us" below. our investment portfolio includes: residential mortgage-backed securities; collateralized mortgage obligations; pass-through securities and asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages; commercial mortgage-backed securities; and wholly-owned real estate and real estate partnerships, all of which could be adversely impacted by declines in real estate valuations and/or financial market disruption. we also invest a portion of our assets in equity securities, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds and real estate partnerships. from time to time, we may also invest in other types of non-fixed maturity investments, including investments with exposure to commodity price risk, such as oil. all of these asset classes are subject to greater volatility in their investment returns than fixed maturity investments. general economic conditions, changes in applicable tax laws and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed maturity investments and the realization of net investment income, and/or result in realized investment losses. as a result of these factors, we may realize reduced returns on these investments, incur losses on sales of these investments and be required to write down the value of these investments, which could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. from time to time, the company enters into short positions in u.s. treasury futures contracts to manage the duration of its fixed maturity portfolio, which can result in realized investment losses. our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions could occur. we may, depending on circumstances in the future, including as a result of changes in economic and market conditions, or potential consequences of the recent tax reforms, make changes to the mix of investments in our investment portfolio as part of our ongoing efforts to seek appropriate risk-adjusted returns. these changes may impact the duration, volatility and risk of our investment portfolio. because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income and we could experience realized and/or unrealized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation. with regard to asbestos claims, we have received and continue to receive a significant number of asbestos claims from policyholders (including others seeking coverage under a policy). factors underlying these claim filings include continued intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants and the continued focus by plaintiffs on defendants who were not 52 table of contents traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation. the focus on these defendants is primarily the result of the number of traditional asbestos defendants who have sought bankruptcy protection in previous years. the bankruptcy of many traditional defendants has also caused increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but remain in the tort system. currently, in many jurisdictions, those who allege very serious injury and who can present credible medical evidence of their injuries are receiving priority trial settings in the courts, while those who have not shown any credible disease manifestation are having their hearing dates delayed or placed on an inactive docket. this trend of prioritizing claims involving credible evidence of injuries, along with the focus on defendants who were not traditionally primary targets of asbestos litigation, has contributed to the claims and claim adjustment expense payments we experienced. we also continue to be involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders, some of whom have filed for bankruptcy, who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. in these instances, policyholders also may assert that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues. to the extent both issues are resolved in a policyholder's favor and our other defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. although we have seen a moderation in the overall risk associated with these lawsuits, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate cost of these claims. further, in addition to claims against policyholders, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, by individuals challenging insurers' conduct with respect to the handling of past asbestos claims and by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. it is possible that the filing of other direct actions against insurers, including us, could be made in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. with regard to environmental claims, we have received and continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims arise under various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla and similar state laws may be imposed on certain parties even if they did not cause the release or threatened release of hazardous substances and may be joint and several with other responsible parties. the company has been, and continues to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to asbestos and environmental claims. the company believes that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. uncertainties surrounding the final resolution of these asbestos and environmental claims continue, and it is difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims and related litigation. as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation: the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation; a further increase in the cost to resolve, and/or the number of, asbestos and environmental claims beyond that which is anticipated; 53 table of contents the emergence of a greater number of asbestos claims than anticipated as a result of extended life expectancies resulting from medical advances and lifestyle improvements; the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued; the resolution or adjudication of disputes concerning coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these disputes; the number and outcome of direct actions against us; future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims; any impact on asbestos defendants we insure due to the bankruptcy of other asbestos defendants; the unavailability of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders, whether through exhaustion of policy limits or through the insolvency of other participating insurers; and uncertainties arising from the insolvency or bankruptcy of policyholders. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal, regulatory and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this environment could be affected by changes in applicable legislation and future court and regulatory decisions and interpretations, including the outcome of legal challenges to legislative and/or judicial reforms establishing medical criteria for the pursuit of asbestos claims. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of complex coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. while the ongoing evaluation of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see the "asbestos claims and litigation" and "environmental claims and litigation" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." also see "item 3 legal proceedings." the intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, including an increasing number of start-ups, which may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with our economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. the competitive environment in which we operate could also be impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us as well as to our competitors. in recent years, pension and hedge funds and other entities with substantial available capital and potentially lower return objectives have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses. well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, as well as competitors that can take advantage of more favorable tax domiciles than the united states, may conduct business in ways that adversely impact our business volumes and profitability. further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely significantly on 54 table of contents reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. in addition, the competitive environment could be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including customer demand for direct distribution channels and/or greater choice, not only in personal lines (where we currently and may increasingly compete against direct writers), but also in commercial lines (where direct writers may become a more significant source of competition in the future, particularly in the small commercial market). similarly, customer behavior could evolve in the future towards buying insurance in point-of-sale distribution channels. we do not currently have a presence in that distribution channel. consolidation within the insurance industry also could alter the competitive environment in which we operate, which may impact our business volumes and/or the rates or terms of our products. in personal insurance, the use of comparative rating technologies has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business as well as the industry as a whole. a substantial amount of the company's personal insurance new business is written after an agent compares quotes using comparative rating technologies, a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. because the use of this technology, whether by agents or directly by customers, facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. it also has resulted in an increase in the level of quote activity and a lower percentage of quotes that result in new business from customers, and these trends may continue or accelerate. if we are not able to operate with a competitive cost structure or accurately estimate and price for claims and claim adjustment expenses, our business volume and underwriting margins could be adversely affected over time. additionally, similar technology is starting to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business and that trend is likely to continue and may accelerate. technology companies or other third parties have created, and may in the future create, digitally-enabled business models, platforms or alternate distribution channels for personal or commercial business that may adversely impact our competitive position. these technology companies or other third parties may compete with us directly by providing, or arranging to provide, insurance coverage themselves. see also "disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us" below. other technological changes also present competitive risks. for example, innovations, such as telematics and other usage-based methods of determining premiums, can impact product design and pricing and may become an increasingly important competitive factor. in addition, our competitive position could be impacted if we are unable to deploy, in a cost effective manner, technology that collects and analyzes a wide variety of data points (so-called "big data" analysis) to make underwriting or other decisions, or if our competitors collect and use data which we do not have the ability to access or use, or are able to use such data more efficiently and/or effectively than we are able to. see also "our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology, particularly as our business processes become more digital" below. competitive dynamics may impact the success of efforts to improve our underwriting margins on our insurance products. these efforts could include seeking improved rates, as well as improved terms and conditions, and could also include other initiatives, such as reducing operating expenses and acquisition costs. these efforts may not be successful and/or may result in lower retention and new business levels and therefore lower business volumes. in addition, if our underwriting is not effective, further efforts to increase rates could also lead to "adverse selection", whereby accounts retained have higher losses, and are less profitable, than accounts lost. for more detail, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations outlook." 55 table of contents similar to other industries, the insurance industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological and other change. traditional insurance industry participants, technology companies, "insurtech" start-up companies, the number of which has increased significantly in recent years, and others are focused on using technology and innovation to simplify and improve the customer experience, increase efficiencies, redesign products, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the insurance industry. if we do not anticipate, keep pace with and adapt to technological and other changes impacting the insurance industry, it will harm our ability to compete, decrease the value of our products to customers, and materially and adversely affect our business. furthermore, innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences in the markets in which we operate also pose risks to our business. for example, technologies such as driverless vehicles, assisted-driving or accident prevention technologies, technologies that facilitate ride or home sharing, smart homes or automation could reduce the number of vehicles in use and/or the demand for, or profitability of, certain of our products, create coverage issues or impact the frequency or severity of losses, and we may not be able to respond effectively. overall, our competitive position in our various businesses is based on many factors, including but not limited to our: ability to profitably price our business, retain existing customers and obtain new business; premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs); agent, broker and policyholder relationships; ability to keep pace relative to our competitors with changes in technology and information systems; effectiveness of our claims process, including the speed of payment; ability to avoid and mitigate fraudulent claims; ability to provide our products and services in a cost effective manner; ability to provide new products and services to meet changing customer needs; ability to adapt to changes in business models, technology, customer preferences or regulation impacting the markets in which we operate; perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; reputation, experience and qualifications of employees; geographic scope of business; and local presence. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition or technological or other changes to the markets in which we operate limit our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. see "competition" sections of the discussion on business segments in "item 1 business." disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us . we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through less than a dozen such intermediaries. further, there has been a trend of increased consolidation by agents and brokers, which could impact our relationships with, and fees paid to, some agents and brokers, and/or otherwise negatively impact the 56 table of contents pricing or distribution of our products. agents and brokers may increasingly compete with us to the extent that markets increasingly provide them with direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk. see also "the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability." in all of the foregoing situations, loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. we may also seek to develop new products or distribution channels, which could disrupt our relationships with our agents and brokers. in addition, agents and brokers may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. access to greater levels of data and increased utilization of technology by agents and brokers may also impact our relationship with them and our competitive position. our efforts or their efforts with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize data and technology, could adversely impact our business relationship with independent agents and brokers who currently market our products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. in certain markets, brokers increasingly have been packaging portfolios of risks together and offering them to a narrower range of carriers as well as, in some cases, requesting a commitment to participate in such portfolios in advance. in these and other situations, agents and brokers have an increased influence over policy language which, if we participate on that basis, could adversely impact our ability to profitably manage underwriting risk. it could also lead to commoditization of products, which could increase the focus on price and cost management and decrease our ability to differentiate our products in the marketplace with customers based on other factors. we rely on internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain of our products, and we may increasingly rely on internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution. in some instances, our agents and brokers are required to access separate business platforms to execute the sale of our personal insurance or commercial insurance products. should internet disruptions occur, or frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives develop among our independent agents and brokers, any resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. see "if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted" below. customers in the past have brought claims against us for the actions of our agents. even with proper controls in place, actual or alleged errors or inaccuracies by our agents could result in our involvement in disputes, litigation or regulatory actions related to actions taken or not taken by our agents. we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental claims, we face potential exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, such as lead paint, silica, talc and welding rod fumes. establishing claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the potential for a large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, make it difficult to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. 57 table of contents because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change, and such change could be material. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business, including by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, by increasing the number, size or types of claims or by mandating changes to our underwriting practices. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new or expanded theories of liability; plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; claims under directors' &amp; officers' and/or errors and omissions insurance policies relating to losses from involvement in financial market activities, such as mortgage or financial product origination, distribution, structuring or servicing and foreclosure procedures; failed financial institutions; fraud; improper sales practices; anti-trust allegations; possible accounting irregularities; and corporate governance issues; claims related to data and network security breaches, information system failures or cyber events, particularly as the "internet of things" becomes more prevalent, including cases where coverage was not intended to be provided; the assertion of "public nuisance" or similar theories of liability, pursuant to which plaintiffs seek to recover monies spent to administer public health care programs, abate hazards to public health and safety and/or recover damages purportedly attributable to a "public nuisance"; claims related to liability or workers' compensation arising out of the spread of infectious disease or pandemic; claims relating to abuse by an employee or a volunteer of an insured; claims that link health issues to particular causes (for example, cumulative traumatic head injury from sports or other causes), resulting in liability or workers' compensation claims; claims alleging that one or more of our underwriting criteria have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the law, including the fair housing act; claims arising out of modern techniques and practices used in connection with the extraction of natural resources, such as hydraulic fracturing or wastewater injection; claims arising out of the use of personal cars, homes or other property in commercial transactions, such as ride or home sharing; claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies or business models or processes, including as a result of related behavioral changes; and claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions, including higher frequency and severity of weather-related events. 58 table of contents in some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. as a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. in addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all and we are exposed to credit risk related to our structured settlements. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain reinsurers have ceased writing business and entered into runoff. some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the european union and the united kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty's consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. included in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to certain structured settlements. structured settlements are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. in cases where we did not receive a release from the claimant, the structured settlement is included in reinsurance recoverables and the related claim cost is included in the liability for claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as we retain the contingent liability to the claimant. some of the life insurance companies from which we have purchased structured settlements have been downgraded to below investment grade credit ratings subsequent to the time of the purchase. if it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, we would recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. in the event that the life insurance company fails to make the required annuity payments, we would be required to make such payments. for a discussion of our top reinsurance groups by reinsurance recoverable and the top five groups by amount of structured settlements provided, see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reinsurance recoverables." the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. the availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. the availability and cost of reinsurance could affect our business volume and profitability. in addition, the covered agreement with the european union recently signed by the u.s. will eliminate the requirement for european reinsurers operating in the u.s. to provide collateral in connection with reinsurance agreements, which could make it more difficult for u.s. companies, including us, to obtain sufficient collateral, if any, in such reinsurance arrangements. 59 table of contents because of the risks set forth above, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and/or life insurance companies may fail to make required annuity payments, and thus our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are also exposed to credit risk in certain of our insurance operations and with respect to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. in addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables (discussed above), we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. we are exposed to credit risk in our surety insurance operations, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations (e.g., a construction contract) or certain financial obligations, including exposure to large customers who may have obligations to multiple third parties. if our customer defaults, we may suffer losses and not be reimbursed by that customer. in addition, it is customary practice in the surety business for multiple insurers to participate as co-sureties on large surety bonds. under these arrangements, the co-surety obligations are typically joint and several, in which case we are also exposed to credit risk with respect to our co-sureties. in addition, a portion of our business is written with large deductible insurance policies. under casualty insurance contracts with deductible features, we are obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the settled claim. we are subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount, and, as a result, we are exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation and/or general liability policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose us to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. our efforts to mitigate the credit risk that we have to our insureds may not be successful. to reduce such credit risk, we require certain insureds to post collateral for some or all of these obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks, surety bonds or cash. in cases where we receive pledged securities and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed during an insured's bankruptcy. in cases where we receive letters of credit from banks and the insureds are unable to honor their obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. in accordance with industry practice, when policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums relating to those policies are often paid to the agents and brokers for payment to us. in most jurisdictions, the premiums will be deemed to have been paid to us whether or not they are actually received by us. consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers. to a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face an increased credit risk in an economic downturn. while we attempt to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. for example, collateral obtained may subsequently have little or no value. further, the amount of collateral protection we have been able to obtain on the business we write in certain markets has decreased, and may continue to decrease, as a result of competition. we are also exposed to credit risk related to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties. see note 16 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. as a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 60 table of contents within the united states, our businesses are heavily regulated by the states in which we conduct business, including licensing, market conduct and financial supervision, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. these regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. for example, to protect policyholders whose insurance company becomes financially insolvent, guaranty funds have been established in all 50 states to pay the covered claims of policyholders in the event of an insolvency of an insurer, subject to applicable state limits. the funding of guaranty funds is provided through assessments levied against remaining insurers in the marketplace. as a result, the insolvency of one or more insurance companies could result in additional assessments levied against us. in addition, many states restrict the timing and/or the ability of an insurer to discontinue writing a line of business or to cancel or non-renew certain policies. these regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business including, recently, cyber-security. the state insurance regulatory framework has been under continuing scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the naic and state insurance regulators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. as part of these changes, insurance holding company regulations were amended to require insurers who are part of a holding company system to file an enterprise risk report to provide the lead insurance regulator with a summary of the company's enterprise risk management (erm) framework, including the material risks within the insurance holding company system that could pose risk to the insurance entities within the holding company system. insurers having premium volume above certain thresholds, including the company, are also required to perform at least annually a self-assessment of their current and future risks, including their likely future solvency position (known as an own risk and solvency assessment or orsa) and file a confidential report with the insurer's lead insurance regulator. the requirement for an insurer to conduct an orsa is intended to foster an effective level of erm at all insurers within a holding company system, and to provide a group-wide perspective on risk and capital as a supplement to the legal entity view. orsa is now included in the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) standards and is in various stages of implementation in the united states, europe, canada, and other jurisdictions. it is possible that, as a result of orsa and the manner in which it may be used by insurance regulators, our states of domicile or other regulatory bodies may require changes in our erm process (e.g., prescribe the use of specific models or the application of certain assumptions in the company's models) that have the effect of limiting our ability to write certain risks, limit our risk appetite to write additional business or reduce our capital management flexibility. see "enterprise risk management" for further discussion of the company's erm. the naic and state insurance regulators, as well as the federal reserve and federal insurance office, are currently working with the iais to develop a global common framework (comframe) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (iaigs). if adopted, comframe would require the designation of a group-wide supervisor (regulator) for each iaig and would impose a group capital requirement that would be applied to an iaig in addition to the current legal entity capital requirements imposed by state insurance laws and regulations. in response to comframe, the naic developed a model law that allows state insurance regulators in the u.s. to be designated as group-wide supervisors for u.s.-based iaigs. additionally, the naic is developing a group capital analytical tool that would be applied to u.s.-based insurance groups in addition to the risk-based 61 table of contents capital (rbc) requirement that is applied on a legal entity basis. these regulatory developments could increase the amount of capital that the company is required to have and could result in the company being subject to increased regulatory requirements. states may choose to adopt more restrictive insurance laws and regulations that could, among other things, restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to distribute funds to their parent companies or they could reject rate increases due to the economic environment. the state insurance regulators may also increase the statutory capital and surplus requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. in addition, state tax laws that specifically impact the insurance industry, such as premium taxes or other taxes, could be enacted or changed by states to raise revenues. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (tcja) was signed into law. this is the first major revision of the u.s. tax code since 1986 and its ultimate impact is uncertain. for example, some elected state officials and regulators have criticized the new law and may attempt to take legal, legislative, or regulatory actions designed to change the tcja's impact on their jurisdictions. state laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could adversely impact our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings are important to an insurer's competitive position. rating agencies periodically review insurers' ratings and change their ratings criteria; therefore, our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes because demand for certain of our products may be reduced, particularly because many customers may require that we maintain minimum ratings to enter into, maintain or renew business with us. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. if significant losses, including, but not limited to, those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions or significant investment losses were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future (which we may not be able to do at a reasonable cost or at all, especially at a time of financial market disruption) in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related or other catastrophes or a prolonged financial market disruption or economic downturn may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. see also "during or following a period of financial market disruption or economic downturn, our business could be materially and adversely affected." for further discussion about our ratings, see "item 1 business ratings." the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations, pay future shareholder dividends and/or make future share repurchases. our holding company relies on dividends from our u.s. insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt, to pay dividends to shareholders, to make contributions to our qualified domestic pension plan, to pay other corporate expenses and to make share repurchases. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in the future will depend on their statutory capital and surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we are subject to state insurance regulation as an insurance holding company system. our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. in a time of prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, insurance regulators may choose to further restrict the ability of insurance subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies. the ability of 62 table of contents our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company is also restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations, to pay future shareholder dividends and to make share repurchases. our efforts to develop new products, expand in targeted markets or improve business processes and workflows may not be successful and may create enhanced risks. from time to time, to protect and grow market share and/or improve our efficiency, we invest in strategic initiatives to: develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured, contain new coverages or change coverage terms; change commission terms; change our underwriting processes; improve business processes and workflow to increase efficiencies and productivity and to enhance the experience of our customers and distributors; expand distribution channels; and enter geographic markets within or outside of the united states where we have had relatively little or no market share. we may not be successful in these efforts, and even if we are successful, they may create the following risks, among others: demand for new products or expansion into new markets may not meet our expectations; new products and expansion into new markets may change our risk exposures, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products; models underlying automated underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective; efforts to develop new products or markets and to change commission terms may create or increase distribution channel conflict, such as described above under " disruptions to our relationships with our independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us;" in connection with the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and profit margins; and changes to our business processes or workflow, including the use of new technologies, may give rise to execution risk. these efforts may require us to make substantial expenditures, which may negatively impact results in the near term, and if not successful, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we may be adversely affected if our pricing and capital models provide materially different indications than actual results. the profitability of our property and casualty business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. we utilize proprietary and third party models to help us price business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. we incorporate the company's historical loss experience, external industry and other data, and economic indices into our modeling processes, and we use various methods, including predictive modeling, forecasting and sophisticated simulation modeling techniques, to analyze loss trends and the risks 63 table of contents associated with our assets and liabilities. we also use these modeling processes, analyses and methods in making underwriting, pricing and reinsurance decisions as part of managing our exposure to catastrophes and other extreme adverse events. these modeling processes incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of the frequency and severity of losses, inflation, interest rates and capital requirements, among others, that are difficult to make and may differ materially from actual results. whether we use a proprietary or third-party model, future experience may be materially different from past and current experience incorporated in a model's forecasts or simulations. this includes the likelihood of events occurring or continuing or the correlation among events. third-party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. as a result, third-party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. the differences between third-party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events. in addition, as the number of third-party models increases, it becomes more difficult to validate and manage such models as they evolve over time, and the risk associated with assimilating the output from such models into our decisions increases. if we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure or fail to change our pricing models to appropriately reflect our experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. if we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. if we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. see "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations catastrophe modeling." our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology, particularly as our business processes become more digital. we depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business and processing claims, as well as for providing the data and analytics we utilize to manage our business. as a result, our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner, particularly as our business processes become more digital. some system development projects are long-term in nature, may negatively impact our expense ratios as we invest in the projects and may cost more than we expect to complete. in addition, system development projects may not deliver the benefits or perform as expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties, additional costs or accelerated recognition of expenses. if we do not effectively and efficiently manage and upgrade our technology portfolio, or if the costs of doing so are higher than we expect, our ability to provide competitive services to, and conduct business with, new and existing customers in a cost effective manner and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives could be adversely impacted. if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. while technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present significant risks. our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. a shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities (including our primary data processing facility); a power outage; or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to 64 table of contents perform such functions on a timely basis, particularly if such an interruption lasts for an extended period of time. in the event of a computer virus or disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist or other attack or industrial accident, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. in addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems increasingly interface with and depend on third-party systems, including cloud-based, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. business interruptions and failures of controls could also result if our internal systems do not interface with each other as intended or if changes to such systems are not effectively implemented. business continuity can also be disrupted by an event, such as a pandemic, that renders large numbers of a workforce unable to work as needed, particularly at critical locations; for example, our largest location employs about 20% of our employees. if our business continuity plans did not sufficiently address a business interruption, system failure or service denial, this could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. computer viruses, hackers (including individuals, organizations or rogue states) and employee or vendor misconduct, and other external hazards, could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. in addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. while we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. like other global companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses, malware or other malicious codes (including ransomware), unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material cyber-security breach. however, over time, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. our administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to detect or prevent unauthorized access, other physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. in addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks. our increased use of open source software, cloud technology and software as a service can make it more difficult to identify and remedy such situations due to the disparate location of code utilized in our operations. we have outsourced certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may increasingly do so in the future. if we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing relationships, if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, if we experience technological or other problems with a transition, or if outsourcing relationships relevant to our business process functions are terminated, we may not realize expected productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to increased risk related to data security, service disruptions or the effectiveness of our control system, which could result in monetary and reputational damages or harm to our competitive position. these risks could increase as vendors increasingly offer cloud-based software services rather than software services which can be run within our data centers. see also "we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective." in addition to risks caused by third party providers, our ability to receive services from 65 table of contents third-party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or public policy inside or outside of the united states. the increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss or manipulation, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages, competitive disadvantage and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under evolving cyber-security, data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the u.s. federal and state governments, canada, the european union or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. as an example, the european general data protection regulation will be applicable in all european union member states beginning may 25, 2018. this regulation adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data and could impose a fine of up to 4% of global annual revenue for violations. as a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we are also subject to a number of additional risks associated with our business outside the united states. we conduct business outside the united states primarily in canada, the united kingdom and the republic of ireland. in addition, we conduct business in brazil, primarily through a joint venture, and we have an indirect interest in a joint venture in colombia. we may also explore opportunities in other countries, including other latin american countries and other emerging markets such as india. in conducting business outside of the united states, we are also subject to a number of additional risks, particularly in emerging economies. these risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, currency exchange limits, ownership limits and other restrictive or anti-competitive governmental actions or requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. a portion of our premiums from outside of the united states is generated in canada, a substantial portion of which consists of automobile premiums from the province of ontario, which is a highly regulated market. our business activities outside the united states may also subject us to currency risk and, in some markets, it may be difficult to effectively hedge that risk, or we may choose not to hedge that risk. in addition, in some markets, we may invest as part of a joint venture with a local counterparty. because our governance rights may be limited, we may not have control over the ability of the joint venture to make certain decisions and/or mitigate risks it faces, and significant disagreements with a joint venture counterparty may adversely impact our investment and/or reputation. our business activities outside the united states could subject us to increased volatility in earnings resulting from the need to recognize and subsequently revise a valuation allowance associated with income taxes if we became unable to fully utilize any deferred tax assets, including loss carry-forwards from those foreign operations. also, political instability, particularly in emerging economies, and changing market conditions around the globe, could result in financial market disruption or an economic downturn in such regions. our business activities outside the united states also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and an employee or intermediary fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of, and potential liability under, the local laws. in some jurisdictions, including brazil, parties to a joint venture may, in some circumstances, have liability for some obligations of the venture, and that liability may extend beyond the capital invested. failure to comply with local laws in a 66 table of contents particular market may result in substantial liability and could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. in addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets and other non-u.s. locations may be intense. if we are not able to hire, integrate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of employees with the knowledge and background necessary for our global businesses, those businesses and our results of operations may be adversely affected. regulatory changes outside of the united states, including in canada, the u.k. and the european union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended in jurisdictions outside the u.s. may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs of compliance and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and limit our growth. in particular, the european union's executive body, the european commission, implemented new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called solvency ii on january 1, 2016 that apply to the company's businesses across the european union. under solvency ii, it is possible that the u.s. parent of a european union subsidiary could be subject to certain solvency ii requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the u.s. parent is not already subject to regulations deemed "equivalent" to solvency ii. in addition, regulators in countries where the company has operations are working with the international association of insurance supervisors (iais) (and with the naic, the federal reserve and fio in the u.s.) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision and group capital requirements. the iais has developed a methodology for identifying "global systemically important insurers" (g-siis) and high level policy measures that will apply to the g-siis. the methodology and measures were endorsed by the financial stability board (fsb) created by the g-20. using the iais methodology, the fsb, working with national authorities and the iais, identified nine insurers in november 2016 that they designated as g-siis. the iais is working on the policy measures which include higher capital requirements and enhanced supervision. the company has not been designated as a g-sii by the fsb; however, the fsb updates the list annually, and it is possible that the methodologies could be amended or interpreted differently in the future and the company could be named as a g-sii. the iais is also in the process of developing the common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (comframe). as the current draft of comframe is completed, it likely will lead to similar policy measures as those being developed for g-siis being made applicable to internationally active insurance groups (or "iaigs"), including group supervision, group capital requirements, and resolution planning, i.e., a written plan developed by a financial group detailing how it would be wound down in the event of an insolvency. the iais is currently in the process of field testing the group capital requirements. the company would be considered an internationally active insurance group under the current consultation draft. it is possible that comframe, if adopted, could lead to enhanced supervision and higher capital standards on a global basis if the iais, the naic and the individual states adopt the proposed or similar provisions. the u.s. department of the treasury (treasury) and the office of the u.s. trade representative (ustr) entered into a covered agreement (the covered agreement) in september 2017 regarding prudential (solvency) insurance and reinsurance measures with the european union (eu). the eu is expected to approve the agreement later in 2018. the covered agreement includes three areas of prudential insurance supervision related to: reinsurance contracts, group supervision, and the exchange of information between u.s. and eu insurers and the respective insurance regulators. the covered agreement is intended to promote cooperation between the u.s. and eu insurance regulators and is intended to limit the ability of the eu to apply solvency and group capital requirements to the 67 table of contents worldwide operations of any u.s. insurer operating in the eu. it is possible that individual members of the eu could choose to apply none or only parts of the covered agreement, resulting in greater regulation and higher capital standards as well as inconsistent regulatory requirements among the jurisdictions that the company does business. while it is not yet known how or if these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management, and could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth. loss of or significant restrictions on the use of particular types of underwriting criteria, such as credit scoring, or other data or methodologies, in the pricing and underwriting of our products could reduce our future profitability. our underwriting profitability depends in large part on our ability to competitively price our products at a level that will adequately compensate us for the risks assumed. as a result, risk selection and pricing through the application of actuarially sound and segmented underwriting criteria is critical. however, laws or regulations, or judicial or administrative findings, could significantly curtail the use of particular types of underwriting criteria. for example, we may use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and/or regulators have alleged that the use of credit scoring violates the law by discriminating against persons belonging to a protected class and are calling for the prohibition or restrictions on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. a variety of other underwriting criteria and other data or methodologies used in personal and commercial insurance have been and continue to be criticized by regulators, government agencies, consumer groups or individuals on similar or other grounds. resulting regulatory actions or litigation could result in negative publicity and/or generate adverse rules or findings, such as curtailing the use of important underwriting criteria, or other data or methodologies, each of which could adversely affect our future profitability. acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses may result in operating difficulties and other unintended consequences. from time to time we may pursue acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives and that the potential rewards of an acquisition justify the risks. the process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. for example, acquisitions may present significant risks, including: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the ineffective integration of, or other difficulties with, underwriting, risk management, claims handling, information technology and actuarial practices; uncertainties related to an acquiree's reserve estimates and its design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting; the diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges; the loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities; difficulties in achieving the strategic objectives of an acquisition, including the business, financial, technological or distribution objectives; the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees; and the impact on our financial position and/or credit ratings. the expected benefits of acquired businesses may not be realized, any cost savings and other synergies anticipated from the acquisition may not be achieved and costs associated with the integration may be greater than anticipated. acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated, resulting in 68 table of contents substantial costs or delays and adversely affecting our ability to compete. accordingly, our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. these activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. if our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk), errors in financial reporting or damage to our reputation. see also "if we experience difficulties with technology, data and network security (including as a result of cyber attacks), outsourcing relationships, or cloud-based technology, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted." in addition, ineffective controls, including with respect to any joint ventures or recently acquired businesses, could lead to litigation or regulatory action. the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against various types of financial institutions have increased over time. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse financial impact. see note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. there is significant competition from within the property and casualty insurance industry and from businesses outside the industry for qualified employees, especially those in key positions and those possessing highly specialized knowledge in areas such as underwriting, data and analytics, technology and e-commerce. our performance is largely dependent on the talents, efforts and proper conduct of highly-skilled individuals, including our senior executives (many of whom have decades of experience in the insurance industry), and the board of directors regularly engages in succession discussions. see "item 10 directors, executive officers and corporate governance" for more information relating to our executive officers, including our senior leaders. for many of our senior positions, we compete for talent not just with insurance or financial service companies, but with other large companies and other businesses. our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate our employees, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others. our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary trademarks, technology and other intellectual property. see "item 1 other information intellectual property." we may not, however, be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use and disclosure by others. further, the intellectual property laws may not prevent our competitors from independently developing trademarks, products and services that are similar to ours. moreover, the agreements we execute to protect our intellectual property rights may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies in response. our attempts to patent or register our intellectual property rights in the u.s. and worldwide may not succeed initially or may later be challenged by third parties. further, the laws of certain countries outside the united states may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. we may incur significant costs in our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the initiation of expensive and protracted litigation, and we may not prevail. any inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. 69 table of contents we may be subject to claims by third parties from time to time that our products, services and technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. in recent years, certain entities have acquired patents in order to allege claims of infringement against companies, including in some cases, us. any intellectual property infringement claims brought against us could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of the merits of the claims. if we are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights, it could result in reputational harm, payment of significant monetary damages, payment of license fees (if licenses are even available to us, on reasonable terms or otherwise) and/or substantial time and expense to redesign our products, services or technologies to avoid the infringement. in addition, we use third party software in some of our products, services and technologies. if any of our software vendors or licensors are faced with infringement claims, we may lose our ability to use such software until the dispute is resolved. if we cannot successfully redesign an infringing product, service or technology (or procure a substitute version), this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act) established a federal insurance office (fio) within the u.s. department of the treasury. the fio has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, but it has in the past recommended an expanded federal role in some circumstances. the dodd-frank act also gives the federal reserve supervisory authority over a number of nonbank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a financial stability oversight council (the fsoc) as "systemically important financial institutions" (sifi) or own a bank or thrift. the company, based upon the fsoc's rules and interpretive guidance, has not been designated as a sifi and is not subject to regulation by the federal reserve. in addition, the federal reserve appears to be moving away from sifi designations altogether. nonetheless, it is possible that fsoc may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that we are a sifi. if we were designated as a sifi, the federal reserve's supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. the dodd-frank act also authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of sifi's that have become insolvent. we (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material to us and are not currently estimable. as a result of the foregoing, the dodd-frank act, including any changes thereto as a result of its current re-evaluation or otherwise, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose additional burdens on us, including impacting the ways in which we conduct our business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other competitors that may not be subject to the same level of regulation. even if we are not subject to additional regulation by the federal government, significant financial sector regulatory reform could have a significant impact on us. for example, regulatory reform could have an unexpected impact on our rights as a creditor or on our competitive position. the current administration is reviewing rules and regulations across the entire federal regulatory spectrum, including treasury, the sec, the department of transportation, the department of labor and other agencies, as well as treaty relationships with parties to the north american free trade agreement. we expect executive action on regulatory changes to continue in 2018 and beyond. other potential changes in u.s. federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies, including the potential repeal of the mccarran-ferguson act (which exempts insurance from most federal regulation), could also significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. 70 table of contents changes in u.s. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us. tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us, including increasing the statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate. alternatively, federal tax legislation could be enacted to further reduce the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 21%, which would, accordingly, reduce any u.s. net deferred tax asset. the amount of any net deferred tax asset is volatile and significantly impacted by changes in unrealized investment gains and losses. the effect of a reduction in a tax rate on net deferred tax assets is required to be recognized, in full, as a reduction of income from continuing operations in the period when enacted and, along with other changes in the tax rules that may increase the company's actual tax expense, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, a reduction in the existing statutory u.s. federal corporate income tax rate could increase the after-tax effect of future significant loss events and our after-tax borrowing costs. additional uncertainties exist with respect to potential technical corrections and clarifications to the recently enacted tax cuts and jobs act of 2017. our investment portfolio has benefited from certain tax exemptions and certain other tax laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, such legislation could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, particularly changes to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (which comprise 43% of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2017), which could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds. other tax law changes could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. for example, budget constraints faced by many states and localities increase the likelihood that state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates (inclusive of credit spreads), foreign currency exchange rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company's primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2017. the company's market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company's investment portfolio at december 31, 2017 and 2016 was $72.50 billion and $70.49 billion, respectively, of which 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities at both dates. at december 31, 2017 and 2016, approximately 7.3% and 7.1%, respectively, of the company's invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company's exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk and is not a party to any credit default swaps. the primary market risks to the investment portfolio are interest rate risk and credit risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. for additional information regarding the company's investments, see notes 3 and 4 of notes to the consolidated financial statements as well as the "investment portfolio" and "outlook" sections of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the primary market risk for all of the company's debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company's debt, see note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements as well as the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." the company's foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company's invested assets, insurance reserves and shareholders' equity denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company's foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the canadian dollar comprised approximately 4.4% of the total invested assets at both december 31, 2017 and 2016. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.0% and 1.9% of total invested assets at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. invested assets denominated in other currencies at december 31, 2017 and 2016 were not material. there were no other significant changes in the company's primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the year ended december 31, 2016. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. 152 table of contents sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected period of time. in the company's sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. "near-term" means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company's market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk (inclusive of credit spreads). the sensitivity analysis model uses various basis point changes in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2017 and 2016. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2017 and 2016 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.08 billion and $2.19 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company's financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the company's analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $528 million and $502 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 153 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . the exposures to market risk section of management discussion and analysis on pages 54 and 55 of the st. paul 2002 annual report to shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. catastrophe losses could materially reduce our profitability and adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather and fires. catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events) or a consequence of war or political instability. the geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure from hurricanes in the northeast, florida, gulf coast and mid-atlantic regions, as well as catastrophe exposure from earthquakes in california and the new madrid and pacific northwest regions and other weather-related catastrophe exposure in the united kingdom. the incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. over the last several years, changing climactic conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. it is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events will increase. in particular, we expect that the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms experienced in 2005 and 2004 will continue into 2006. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. states have from time to time passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas. in addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. also, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the personal segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain states. catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and may materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition, which in turn could adversely affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. also, particularly in light of the frequency and severity of storms in the past two years, rating agencies may increase their capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. in addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance . we have limited terrorism coverage in our reinsurance program, and although the terrorism risk insurance extension act of 2005 provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism, it may not be extended beyond 2007 or its benefits may be reduced. 37 our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation . asbestos claims . we believe that the property and casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond the intent of insurers and policyholders. as a result, we continue to experience a significant number of asbestos claims being tendered to us by our policyholders (which includes others seeking coverage under a policy) including claims against our policyholders by individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure. factors underlying these claim filings include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, the focus by plaintiffs on new and previously peripheral defendants and entities seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos-related liabilities. in addition to contributing to the overall number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase asbestos-related losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including us. bankruptcy proceedings are also causing increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. in addition, our asbestos-related loss and loss expense experience is impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants. we are currently involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of policyholders who have filed for bankruptcy, including, among others, acands, inc., who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage as described generally in the next paragraph. also see part i item 3 legal proceedings . these trends are expected to continue in the near term. as a result of the factors described above, there is a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims. in some instances, policyholders continue to assert that their claims for asbestos-related insurance are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage and that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under the policy. it is difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both issues or whether we will be successful in asserting additional defenses. to the extent both issues are resolved in policyholders favor and other additional company defenses are not successful, our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. accordingly, it is difficult to predict the ultimate cost of the claims for coverage not subject to aggregate limits. many coverage disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement agreements. because many policyholders make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement negotiations. settlements involving bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to us but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally anticipated. also, courts may not approve proposed settlements , which would result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes for us. as in the past, we will continue to pursue settlement opportunities. in addition, proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us, challenging insurers conduct in respect of asbestos claims, and claims by individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily injuries. there may be additional filings of other direct actions against insurers, including us, in the future. it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability. environmental claims . we continue to receive claims from policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of their alleged disposition of toxic substances. mostly, these claims are due to various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation. for instance, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), enacted in 1980 and later modified, enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. this federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action. liability under cercla may be joint and several with other responsible parties. we have been, and continue to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues pertaining to environmental claims. we believe that some court decisions have interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of the insurers and policyholders. these decisions often pertain to insurance policies that were issued by us prior to the mid-1970s. these decisions continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and we do not keep track of the monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary amount. 38 asbestos and environmental claims . it is difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation . as a result, these reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. the continuing uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability inherent in complex litigation, any impact from the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos defendants , a further increase or decrease in asbestos and environmental claims which cannot now be anticipated, the role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with our previous assessment of these claims , the number and outcome of direct actions against us and future developments pertaining to our ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims. in addition, our asbestos-related loss and loss expense experience has been impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance sources potentially available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants. it is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. this development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as well as changes in applicable legislation, including proposed legislation related to asbestos reform. it is also difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of large coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement, until the dispute is adjudicated. this is particularly the case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be effective. see the asbestos claims and litigation and environmental claims and litigation sections of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. also see part i item 3, legal proceedings. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current reserves for asbestos and environmental claims . in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to our operating results and financial condition in future periods. reinsurance may not protect us against losses . we use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property and casualty risks. the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. as a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in addition, some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. this is a particular risk in the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago, including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. reinsurance may not protect us against losses and may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. we are exposed to, and may face adverse developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances. in addition to asbestos and environmental pollution, we face exposure to other types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod fumes. establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the large rise in the total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments suggesting an increase in disease rates. moreover, evolving judicial interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to our operating results in future periods. 39 if actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results could be significantly and adversely affected. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent management estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date. these loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. in establishing reserves, we also take into account estimated recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. the process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. these variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, among others. the impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). informed judgment is applied throughout the process. we continually refine our loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. we rigorously attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates including but not limited to the future settlement environment, final resolution of the estimated liability will be different from that anticipated at the reporting date. therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than currently reserved favorable or unfavorable. there are also risks which impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. for example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability by us and our insureds to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. complex factors include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the effect of mold damage and business interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility. the timing of a catastrophe occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. the estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge. because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current related reserves. in addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. these additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be material to our operating results in future periods. a portion of our loss reserves are for asbestos and environmental claims and related litigation which aggregated $4.79 billion at december 31, 2005. while the ongoing study of asbestos and environmental claims and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as to coverage, plaintiffs expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent in complex litigation and other uncertainties, in the opinion of our management, it is possible that the outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount that could be material to our operating results and financial condition in future periods. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations asbestos claims and litigation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental claims and litigation. for a discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line, including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates claims and claim adjustment expense reserves. 40 the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. these issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: increases in the number and size of claims related to expenses for testing and remediation of mold conditions; increases in the number and size of claims relating to construction defects, which often present complex coverage and damage valuation questions; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in medical costs and auto and home repair costs; judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; and a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claim-handling and other practices. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. the insurance industry is the subject of a number of investigations by state and federal authorities in the united states. we cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or the impact on our business or financial results. as part of ongoing, industry-wide investigations, we and our affiliates have received subpoenas and written requests for information from government agencies and authorities, including from the attorneys general of numerous states, various states insurance and business regulators and the securities and exchange commission. the areas of inquiry addressed to us include our relationship with brokers and agents, our involvement with non-traditional insurance and reinsurance products, branding requirements for salvage automobiles and the reporting of workers compensation premiums. we and our affiliates may receive additional subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these or other areas from government agencies or authorities. we are cooperating with these subpoenas and requests for information. for further information, see part i item 3 legal proceedings . it would be premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters or the impact on our business or financial results. potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and/or changes in business practices that could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition , these investigations may result in changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could, in turn, also adversely affect our results of operations. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including licensing and supervision by government regulatory agencies in such jurisdictions. this regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other investors. this regulation also relates to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and nonfinancial components of an insurer business. in recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. further, the national association of insurance commissioners (naic) and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. in addition, congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the united states to determine whether to impose federal regulation or to allow an optional federal incorporation, similar to banks. we cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or future legislation or naic initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs. 41 although the united states federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds, catastrophe funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. these assessments have leveled off in the recent year and in certain states, have begun to decrease. these assessments may, however, increase in the future if additional insolvencies occur. many states also have laws that established second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. in addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in various states, our insurance subsidiaries must participate in mandatory property and casualty shared market mechanisms or pooling arrangements, which provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage from private insurers. the effect of these assessments and mandatory shared-market mechanisms or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. a downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could significantly reduce our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. claims-paying and financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer competitive position. rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. a downgrade in one or more of our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes, because demand for certain of our products in certain markets may be reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain existing business. additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and higher borrowing costs may be incurred. if our capital position were to deteriorate or one or more rating agencies were to substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. for example, the frequency or severity of weather-related catastrophes in the last two years may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements . the ratings are not in any way a measure of protection offered to investors in our securities and should not be relied upon with respect to making an investment in our securities. for further discussion about our ratings, see, item 1 business ratings . our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could reduce our profitability. investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. accordingly, fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our profitability, financial condition or cash flows . fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed income and short-term investments, which comprised approximately 93% of the market value of our investment portfolio as of december 31, 2005. in addition, defaults by third parties, primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform on their obligations could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. we invest a portion of our assets in equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. general economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our equity investments and our ability to control the timing of the realization of net investment income. as a result of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, may incur losses on sales of our investments and may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would reduce our profitability. the intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. the property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and we believe that it will remain highly competitive in the foreseeable future. we compete with both domestic and foreign insurers, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. in addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business now offer products for alternative forms of risk protection, including large deductible programs and various forms of self-insurance that utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. continued growth in alternative forms of risk protection could reduce our premium volume. following the terrorist attack on september 11, 2001 and again following the hurricane activity in 2004 and 2005, a number of new insurers and reinsurers were formed to compete in the industry, and a number of existing market participants have raised new capital which may enhance their ability to compete. financial institutions are now able to offer services similar to us as a result of the gramm-leach-bliley act, which repealed u.s. laws that separated commercial banking, investment banking and insurance activities. 42 our competitive position is based on many factors, including: our perceived overall financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, agent, broker and client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees, local presence and our ability to keep pace relative to competitors with changes in technology and information systems. we may have difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the future. if competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations will be adversely affected. see item 1 business competition. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future dividends. we are a holding company and rely in part on dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory restrictions. we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance holding company system. this regulation generally provides that transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. transfers of assets among affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries and certain material transactions between companies within the system may require prior notice to, or prior approval by, state regulatory authorities. our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities. the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us also is restricted by regulations that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the nature of and limitation on investments, the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and shareholders, the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds and the involuntary assumption of hard-to-place or high-risk insurance business, primarily in workers compensation insurance lines. the inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in an amount sufficient to meet our debt service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay future dividends. loss or significant restriction of the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of personal lines products could reduce our future profitability . in personal lines, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where allowed by state law. some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could reduce our future profitability . disruptions to our relationships with our distributors, independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us . we market our insurance products primarily through independent agents and brokers. an important part of our business is written through fewer than a dozen such intermediaries. loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could have an adverse effect on our future business volume and profitability. 43 if we experience difficulties with outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. we outsource certain technology functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. if we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business . in addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers outside of the united states might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the united states. as a result, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2005. the company market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company investment portfolio as of december 31, 2005 and 2004 was $68.29 billion and $64.37 billion, respectively, of which 86% and 84% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, approximately 6% and 7%, respectively, of the company invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk. the primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. the primary market risk for all of the company debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company debt see note 10 to the company consolidated financial statements as well as the liquidity and capital resources section of management discussion and analysis. the company foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.4% and 3.5% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. no other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 1.8% of the company invested assets at december 31, 2005 or 2004. there were no other significant changes in the company primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2005 compared to the year ended december 31, 2004. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. in the company sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. near-term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. the sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 108 for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2005 and 2004. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2005 and 2004 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company financial instruments. as a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the company consolidated balance sheet, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the company exposure to foreign currencies. the company analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $374 million and $438 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 109quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2006. the company market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company investment portfolio as of december 31, 2006 and 2005 was $72.27 billion and $68.29 billion, respectively, of which 87% and 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 6% of the company invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk. the primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. the primary market risk for all of the company debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company debt see note 7 to the company consolidated financial statements as well as the liquidity and capital resources section of management discussion and analysis. the company foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.8% and 2.4% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. no other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 1.8% of the company invested assets at december 31, 2006 or 2005. there were no other significant changes in the company primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2006 compared to the year ended december 31, 2005. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. in the company sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. near-term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. 141 interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. the sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2006 and 2005. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2006 and 2005 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company financial instruments. as a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the company consolidated balance sheet, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the company exposure to foreign currencies. the company analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $438 million and $374 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 142quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are managed as of december 31, 2006. the company market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. the carrying value of the company investment portfolio as of december 31, 2006 and 2005 was $72.27 billion and $68.29 billion, respectively, of which 87% and 86% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 6% of the company invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk. the primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. the primary market risk for all of the company debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company debt see note 7 to the company consolidated financial statements as well as the liquidity and capital resources section of management discussion and analysis. the company foreign exchange market risk exposure is concentrated in the company invested assets and insurance reserves denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 2.8% and 2.4% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. no other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 1.8% of the company invested assets at december 31, 2006 or 2005. there were no other significant changes in the company primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2006 compared to the year ended december 31, 2005. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. in the company sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. near-term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. 141 interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. the sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2006 and 2005. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2006 and 2005 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company financial instruments. as a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the company consolidated balance sheet, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the company exposure to foreign currencies. the company analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $438 million and $374 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 142quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other relevant market rate or price changes. market risk is directly influenced by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying assets are traded. the following is a discussion of the company primary market risk exposures and how those exposures are currently managed as of december 31, 2004. the company market risk sensitive instruments, including derivatives, are primarily entered into for purposes other than trading. 110 table of contents index to financial statements the carrying value of the company investment portfolio as of december 31, 2004 and 2003 was $64.71 billion and $38.65 billion, respectively, of which 84% and 85% was invested in fixed maturity securities, respectively. at december 31, 2004, approximately 7% of the company invested assets were denominated in foreign currencies. the company exposure to foreign exchange risk was not significant at december 31, 2003. the company exposure to equity price risk is not significant. the company has no direct commodity risk. the primary market risk to the investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. the portfolio duration relative to the liabilities duration is primarily managed through cash market transactions and treasury futures transactions. the primary market risk for all of the company debt is interest rate risk at the time of refinancing. the company monitors the interest rate environment and evaluates refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. for additional information regarding the company debt see notes 10 and 11 to the company consolidated financial statements as well as the liquidity and capital resources section of management discussion and analysis. as a result of the merger, changes in the company exposure to foreign exchange risk have occurred since december 31, 2003. this market risk exposure is concentrated in the company invested assets, and insurance reserves, denominated in foreign currencies. cash flows from the company foreign operations are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in foreign currencies. the company purchases these investments primarily to fund insurance reserves and other liabilities denominated in the same currency, effectively reducing its foreign currency exchange rate exposure. invested assets denominated in the british pound sterling comprised approximately 3.5% of the total invested assets at december 31, 2004. no other individual foreign currency accounted for more than 1.5% of the company invested assets at december 31, 2004. there were no other significant changes in the company primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures were managed for the year ended december 31, 2004 compared to the year ended december 31, 2003. the company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. sensitivity analysis sensitivity analysis is defined as the measurement of potential loss in future earnings, fair values or cash flows of market sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates and other market rates or prices over a selected time. in the company sensitivity analysis model, a hypothetical change in market rates is selected that is expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates. near-term means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the consolidated financial statements. actual results may differ from the hypothetical change in market rates assumed in this disclosure, especially since this sensitivity analysis does not reflect the results of any actions that would be taken by the company to mitigate such hypothetical losses in fair value. interest rate risk in this sensitivity analysis model, the company uses fair values to measure its potential loss. the sensitivity analysis model includes the following financial instruments entered into for purposes other than trading: fixed maturities, non-redeemable preferred stocks, mortgage loans, short-term securities, debt and derivative financial instruments. the primary market risk to the company market sensitive instruments is interest rate risk. the sensitivity analysis model uses a 100 basis point change in interest rates to measure the hypothetical change in fair value of financial instruments included in the model. 111 table of contents index to financial statements for invested assets with primary exposure to interest rate risk, estimates of portfolio duration and convexity are used to model the loss of fair value that would be expected to result from a parallel increase in interest rates. durations on invested assets are adjusted for call, put and interest rate reset features. durations on tax-exempt securities are adjusted for the fact that the yields on such securities do not normally move in lockstep with changes in the u.s. treasury curve. fixed maturity portfolio durations are calculated on a market value weighted basis, including accrued interest, using holdings as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. for debt, the change in fair value is determined by calculating hypothetical december 31, 2004 and 2003 ending prices based on yields adjusted to reflect a 100 basis point change, comparing such hypothetical ending prices to actual ending prices, and multiplying the difference by the par or securities outstanding. the sensitivity analysis model used by the company produces a loss in fair value of market sensitive instruments of approximately $2.1 billion and $1.2 billion based on a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the loss estimates do not take into account the impact of possible interventions that the company might reasonably undertake in order to mitigate or avoid losses that would result from emerging interest rate trends. in addition, the loss value only reflects the impact of an interest rate increase on the fair value of the company financial instruments. as a result, the loss value excludes a significant portion of the company consolidated balance sheet, which if included in the sensitivity analysis model, would mitigate the impact of the loss in fair value associated with a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company uses fair values of investment securities to measure its potential loss from foreign denominated investments. a hypothetical 10% reduction in value of foreign denominated investments is used to estimate the impact on the market value of the foreign denominated holdings. the potential loss is reduced by foreign currency forward transactions that are used to hedge a portion of the company exposure to foreign currencies. the company analysis indicates that a hypothetical 10% reduction in the value of foreign denominated investments would be expected to produce a loss in fair value of approximately $438 million at december 31, 2004. the company exposure to foreign exchange risk was not significant at december 31, 2003.