risk factors 10 risk factors and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 2 table of contents definitions of certain terms and conventions used herein within this report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings: bbl means a standard barrel containing 42 united states gallons. bcf means one billion cubic feet. boe means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis. gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 mcf of gas to 1.0 bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. boepd means boe per day. btu means british thermal unit, which is a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree fahrenheit. field fuel means gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. gaap means accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states of america. libor means london interbank offered rate, which is a market rate of interest. mbbl means one thousand bbls. mboe means one thousand boes. mcf means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume. mmbbl means one million bbls. mmboe means one million boes. mmbtu means one million btus. mmcf means one million cubic feet. ngl means natural gas liquid. nymex means the new york mercantile exchange. nyse means the new york stock exchange. pioneer or the company means pioneer natural resources company and its subsidiaries. proved reserves mean the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e. , prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. the area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. in the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (iii) estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as indicated additional reserves ; (b) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. sec means the united states securities and exchange commission. standardized measure means the after-tax present value of estimated future net revenues of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the sec, using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent discount rate. with respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, net wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying gross wells, drilling locations and acres by the company working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed in u.s. dollars. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states, argentina, canada, equatorial guinea, nigeria, south africa and tunisia. the company executive offices are located at 5205 n. o connor blvd., suite 900, irving, texas 75039. the company telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; buenos aires, argentina; calgary, canada; london, england; lagos, nigeria; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2005, the company had 1,694 employees, 912 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec public reference room at 450 fifth street, n.w., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge on or through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in 2005, the company submitted the annual certification of its chief executive officer regarding the company compliance with the nyse corporate governance listing standards, pursuant to section 303a.12(a) of the nyse listed company manual. evergreen merger on september 28, 2004, pioneer completed a merger with evergreen resources, inc. ( evergreen ). pioneer acquired the common stock of evergreen for a total purchase price of approximately $1.8 billion, which was comprised of cash and pioneer common stock. evergreen was a publicly-traded independent oil and gas company primarily engaged in the production, development, exploration and acquisition of north american unconventional natural gas. evergreen operations were principally focused on developing and expanding its coal bed methane ( cbm ) field located in the raton basin in southern colorado. evergreen also had operations in the piceance basin in western colorado, the uinta basin in eastern utah and the western canada sedimentary basin. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for more information regarding the evergreen merger. mission and strategies the company mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. these strategies are anchored by the company long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields reserves and production which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 78 percent of the company proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2005. 4 table of contents recent strategic initiatives. during september 2005, the company announced that its board of directors (the board ) approved significant strategic initiatives intended to enhance shareholder value and investment returns. together with other important initiatives, the board approved: a $1 billion share repurchase program, $650 million of which was immediately initiated and substantially completed during 2005 and $350 million of which is subject to the completion of the planned deepwater gulf of mexico and argentina divestitures discussed below. a plan to divest the company assets in the tierra del fuego area in southern argentina. the plan was later broadened to include entertaining offers for a complete sale of all of the company argentine assets. during january 2006, pioneer entered into an agreement to sell its assets in argentina for $675 million. a plan to divest the company assets in the deepwater gulf of mexico. bids to purchase the properties were received in january 2006 and the company is currently engaged in negotiations for the sale of these assets. no assurance can be given that a sale can be completed on terms acceptable to the company. the implementation of the board strategic initiatives is allowing pioneer to (i) allocate and focus its investment capital more heavily towards predictable oil and gas basins in north america that have delivered relatively strong and consistent growth and (ii) lower its risk profile by expanding north american unconventional resource investments while reducing higher-risk exploration expenditures. the divestiture of the company argentine oil and gas assets will allow the company to leverage the current commodity price environment to monetize and exit operations in an area that has become characterized by lower operating margins, government-controlled pricing and modest production growth opportunities. the divestiture of the company deepwater gulf of mexico assets, if successful, will also allow the company to monetize and exit operations in an area that is characterized by escalating drilling and operating costs and relatively high exploration risk and production volatility. during 2006, the company plans to: (i) selectively explore for and develop proved reserve discoveries in areas that it believes will offer superior reserve growth and profitability potential; (ii) evaluate opportunities to acquire oil and gas properties that will complement the company exploration and development drilling activities; (iii) invest in the personnel and technology necessary to maximize the company exploration and development successes; and (iv) enhance liquidity, allowing the company to take advantage of future exploration, development and acquisition opportunities. the company is committed to continuing to enhance shareholder investment returns through adherence to these strategies. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil, ngl and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor qualitative differentials, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing experienced management and staff that will lead the company to prudent capital investment decisions, technological innovation and price and cost management. petroleum industry. the petroleum industry has generally been characterized by rising oil, ngl and gas commodity prices during 2005 and recent years. during 2005, the company has also been affected by increasing costs, particularly higher drilling and well servicing rig rates and drilling supplies. during recent years, world oil prices have increased in response to increases in demand in asian economies, hurricane activity in the gulf of mexico and supply disruptions and threatened disruptions in the middle east and venezuela. north american gas prices have improved as overall demand fundamentals have strengthened while supply uncertainties still remain. significant factors that will impact 2006 commodity prices include developments in the issues currently impacting iraq and iran and the middle east in general; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil exporting nations are able to continue to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity hedge contracts. see 5 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2005, 2004 and 2003 from the company hedging activities and the company open hedge positions at december 31, 2005. the company. the company asset base is anchored by the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the hugoton gas field located in southwest kansas, the raton gas field located in southern colorado and the west panhandle gas field located in the texas panhandle. complementing these areas, the company has exploration and development opportunities and/or oil and gas production activities in the gulf of mexico, the onshore gulf coast area and in alaska, and internationally in argentina, canada, equatorial guinea, nigeria, south africa and tunisia. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, ngls and gas, and that are also well balanced between long-lived, dependable production and exploration and development opportunities. additionally, the company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, financial and management support to united states and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce oil, ngl and gas reserves. production operations are principally located domestically in texas, kansas, colorado, louisiana, utah and the gulf of mexico, and internationally in argentina, canada, south africa and tunisia. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. during the year ended december 31, 2005, the company average daily production, on a boe basis, decreased as a result of (i) production curtailments in the gulf of mexico resulting from 2004 and 2005 hurricane damages, (ii) production curtailment in the united states mid-continent area during mid-may through mid-july due to the fire at the company fain gas plant and (iii) full production of recoverable reserves from the harrier field in the deepwater gulf of mexico during the third quarter of 2005. partially offsetting these decreases in production volumes were (i) a full year of gas production from the properties acquired in the evergreen merger, (ii) increased production from the company devils tower oil field in the deepwater gulf of mexico despite hurricane disruptions, (iii) increased production from the company raptor and tomahawk gas fields in the deepwater gulf of mexico and (iv) increased production from the company argentine and canadian subsidiaries, primarily in response to increased development drilling. production, price and cost information with respect to the company properties for 2005, 2004 and 2003 is set forth under item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data . the aforementioned divestitures of the argentine and deepwater gulf of mexico assets, if successfully completed, will significantly reduce the company 2006 production volumes. drilling activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through exploratory and development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2005, the company drilled 1,626 gross (1,484 net) wells, 91 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company interest) of $2.1 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company proved reserves as of december 31, 2005 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 196 mmboe of oil and ngls and 1,233 bcf of gas. development of these proved reserves will require future capital expenditures. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price environment, the company expected operating cash flows and the company financial condition. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves and unproved prospects provides attractive development and exploration opportunities for at least the next three to five years. 6 table of contents exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled exploration staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of exploration opportunities. during september 2005, the company announced that the board approved strategic initiatives to implement a plan to exit exploration in the deepwater gulf of mexico and the tierra del fuego area in argentina and to focus its exploration efforts in onshore north america, alaska and africa. associated therewith, and pending approval of a 2006 capital spending budget, the company plans to reduce its 2006 exploration budget to less than 20 percent of the total 2006 capital budget. the company anticipates that its 2006 exploration efforts will be concentrated domestically in the onshore gulf coast area, the rocky mountain area and alaska, and internationally in africa and canada. exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see item 1a. risk factors drilling activities below. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2005, 2004 and 2003, the company invested $269.7 million, $2.6 billion (including $2.5 billion associated with the evergreen merger) and $151.0 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for a description of the company acquisitions during 2005, 2004 and 2003. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas properties or related assets; entities owning oil and gas properties or related assets; and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence, the submission of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of a letter of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors. see item 1a. risk factors-acquisitions . asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. during september 2005, the company announced that the board had approved a series of strategic initiatives, including a plan to divest the company nonoperated tierra del fuego interests in southern argentina and the company deepwater gulf of mexico portfolio. during the argentine sale process, the company had indications from several potential buyers that they could enhance their value for a transaction in argentina if it included all of the company properties. consequently, the company expressed its willingness to entertain offers for a complete exit from argentina. during january 2006, the company announced signing an agreement with apache corporation to sell all of its assets in argentina for $675 million, subject to normal closing adjustments. the sale to apache corporation is expected to close during the latter part of the first quarter or in early april of 2006. the deepwater gulf of mexico bid process has been completed and the company is currently engaged in negotiations for the sale of the properties. no assurance can be given that a sale can be completed on terms acceptable to the company. during 2005, the company material divestitures consisted of (i) the sale of three volumetric production payments ( vpps ) in the spraberry and hugoton fields for net proceeds of approximately $892.6 million, (ii) the sale of all of its interests in the martin creek, conroy black and lookout butte oil and gas properties in canada for net proceeds of $197.2 million, which resulted in a gain of $138.3 million that is included in the company discontinued operations; (iii) the sale of all of its interests in certain oil and gas properties on the shelf of the gulf of mexico for net proceeds of $59.1 million, which resulted in a gain of $27.7 million that is included in the company discontinued operations; and (iv) the sale of all of its shares in a subsidiary that owns the interest in the olowi block in gabon for net proceeds of $47.9 million, which resulted in a gain of $47.5 million that is included in 7 table of contents the company 2005 income from continuing operations. the net cash proceeds were primarily used to fund additions to oil and gas properties or to reduce the company outstanding indebtedness. see notes n and t of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for specific information regarding the company asset divestitures and vpps entered into by the company during 2005. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. operations by geographic area the company operates in one industry segment, that being oil and gas exploration and production. see note r of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets. marketing of production general. production from the company properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as the index or spot price for gas or the posted price for oil, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, well pressure, estimated reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions. in argentina, the company receives significantly lower prices for its production as a result of the argentine government imposed price limitations. see qualitative disclosures in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of argentine foreign currency, operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2005, the company primary purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were williams power company, inc. (nine percent), occidental energy marketing, inc. (nine percent), conocophillips (seven percent), plains marketing lp (seven percent) and tenaska marketing (six percent). the company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. hedging activities. the company utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a description of the company hedging activities, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information concerning the impact on oil and gas revenues during 2005, 2004 and 2003 from the company commodity hedging activities and the company open commodity hedge positions at december 31, 2005. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company growth. the company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and purchase such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. higher recent commodity prices have increased the cost of properties available for acquisition. many of the company competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. 8 table of contents markets. the company ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. governmental regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that will ensure that material information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known to the company management and that the financial statements and other financial information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. oil and gas exploration and production operations are also subject to various types of regulation by local, state, federal and foreign agencies. additionally, the company operations are subject to state conservation laws and regulations, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. states and foreign governments also generally impose a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil and gas within their respective jurisdictions. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the company cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by the united states congress, the federal energy regulatory commission, state regulatory bodies, the courts and foreign governments. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on the company operations. environmental and health controls. the company operations are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, laws and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental and health protection. these laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from oil and gas operations. the company inability to obtain these permits in a timely manner or at all could cause delays or otherwise negatively impact the company ability to implement its business plans. failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions that limit or prevent operations. although the company believes that compliance with u.s. and foreign environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its future results of operations or financial condition, risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in oil and gas operations, and there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred or that curtailment in production or processing might not arise as a result of such compliance. moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or persons resulting from the company operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in the u.s., the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ), also known as the superfund law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons with respect to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under cercla may be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 9 table of contents the company generates wastes in the u.s., including hazardous wastes, that are subject to the federal resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) and comparable state statutes. the u.s. environmental protection agency, and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. furthermore, certain wastes generated by the company oil and gas operations that are currently exempt from treatment as hazardous wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes, and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly operating and disposal requirements. the company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased, properties in the u.s. that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas reserves. although the company has used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company or on or under other locations where such hydrocarbons or wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal. in addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under the company control. these properties and the hydrocarbons or wastes disposed thereon may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination or to perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. federal regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that store or otherwise handle oil, such as the company, to prepare and implement spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa ) amends certain provisions of the federal water pollution control act of 1972, commonly referred to as the clean water act ( cwa ), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and response to oil spills into navigable waters of the u.s. the opa subjects owners of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. the cwa provides penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable quantities and imposes substantial liability for the costs of removing a spill. opa requires responsible parties to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover removal costs and damages resulting from an oil spill. opa calls for a financial responsibility of $35 million to cover pollution cleanup for offshore facilities. state laws for the control of water pollution also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground. the company does not believe that the opa, cwa or related state laws are any more burdensome to it than they are to other similarly situated oil and gas companies. many states in which the company operates regulate naturally occurring radioactive materials ( norm ) and norm wastes that are generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production activities. norm wastes typically consist of very low-level radioactive substances that become concentrated in pipes and production equipment. certain state regulations require the testing of pipes and production equipment for the presence of norm, the licensing of norm-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and disposal of norm wastes. the company believes the regulation of norm has minimal effect on its operations because the company generates only small quantities of norm on an annual basis. the company field operations in the u.s. involve the use of gas-fired compressors, which are subject to the federal clean air act and analogous state laws governing the control and permitting of air emissions. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable permitting and control technology requirements of such laws and regulations; however, in the future, additional facilities could become subject to additional permitting, monitoring and pollution control requirements as compressor facilities are expanded. the company operations outside of the u.s. are potentially subject to similar foreign governmental controls relating to protection of the environment. the company believes that compliance with existing requirements of these foreign governmental bodies has not had a material adverse effect on the company operations. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company business activities. other risks are 10 table of contents described in item 1. business competition, markets and regulations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . if any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the company business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company common stock could decline. commodity prices. the company revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on oil and gas prices, which are affected by numerous factors beyond the company control. historically, oil and gas prices have been very volatile. a significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company oil and gas properties and goodwill and the recognition of deferred tax asset valuation allowances or an increase to the company deferred tax asset valuation allowances, depending on the company tax attributes in each country in which it has activities. pioneer makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company operating expenses, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, is largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below expectations, pioneer financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. drilling activities. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. the company future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2006 even though less than 20 percent of the company 2006 capital budget is devoted to higher-risk exploratory projects. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to reduced availability, extended delivery times and increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. the company expects that these trends will continue in the foreseeable future and, if so, will impact the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. unproved properties. at december 31, 2005, the company carried unproved property costs of $313.9 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. acquisitions. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a key element of the company growth. the company growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and the assessment of possible environmental liabilities. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. 11 table of contents divestitures. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. operation of gas processing plants. as of december 31, 2005, the company owned interests in 12 gas processing plants and three treating facilities. the company operates eight of the plants and all three treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. for example, in may 2005, the company fain gas plant was shut in for two months due to a mechanical failure that resulted in a fire. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. operating hazards and uninsured losses. the company operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, adverse weather effects and pollution and other environmental damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. increased hurricane activity over the past two years has resulted in production curtailments and physical damage to the company gulf of mexico operations. although the company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. environmental. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities and compliance may increase the cost of the company operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental and health controls above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. debt restrictions and availability. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and a variable rate credit facility. the terms of the company borrowings under the senior notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding the company outstanding debt as of december 31, 2005 and the terms associated therewith. the company ability to obtain additional financing is also impacted by the company debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a discussion of the company debt credit ratings. competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with other companies, producers and operators for acquisitions and in the exploration, development, production and marketing of oil and 12 table of contents gas. some of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations above for additional discussion regarding competition. government regulation. the company business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company business and operations. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations above for additional discussion regarding government regulation. international operations. at december 31, 2005, approximately 14 percent of the company proved reserves of oil, ngls and gas were located outside the united states (ten percent in argentina, two percent in canada and two percent in africa). the success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and united states taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. to the extent that the company is involved in international activities, changes in exchange rates may adversely affect the company future results of operations and financial condition. see critical accounting estimates included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , qualitative disclosures in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information specific to argentina economic and political situation and other risks associated with the company international operations. the aforementioned planned sale of argentine assets, if completed, will significantly reduce the company international operations. estimates of reserves and future net revenues. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies, assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs. because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, the production and operating costs incurred, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and gas sales prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. 13 table of contents as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production, increases or decreases in the supply or demand of oil and gas and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. the company reports all proved reserves held under production sharing arrangements and concessions utilizing the economic interest method, which excludes the host country share of proved reserves. estimated quantities of production sharing arrangements reported under the economic interest method are subject to fluctuations in the price of oil and gas and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. if costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. it requires the use of oil and gas prices, as well as operating and development costs, prevailing as of the date of computation. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially different from the net revenues that are ultimately received. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company proved reserves. stock repurchases. during 2005, the company repurchased 20 million shares of its common stock, and announced its intention to repurchase up to an additional $350 million of its common stock, subject to completion of the planned divestiture of its deepwater gulf of mexico and argentine assets. the board sets limits on the price per share at which pioneer common stock can be repurchased, and the company will not be permitted to repurchase its stock during certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading blackouts. additionally, business conditions and availability of capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or cancelled. as a result, there can be no assurance that additional repurchases will be commenced and, if so, that they will be completed. commodity hedges. to the extent that the company engages in hedging activities to reduce commodity price risk, pioneer may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative disclosures 56 qualitative disclosures 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 2 table of contents definitions of certain terms and conventions used herein within this report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings: bbl means a standard barrel containing 42 united states gallons. bcf means one billion cubic feet. boe means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis. gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 mcf of gas to 1.0 bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. boepd means boe per day. btu means british thermal unit, which is a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree fahrenheit. field fuel means gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. gaap means accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states of america. libor means london interbank offered rate, which is a market rate of interest. mbbl means one thousand bbls. mboe means one thousand boes. mcf means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume. mmbbl means one million bbls. mmboe means one million boes. mmbtu means one million btus. mmcf means one million cubic feet. ngl means natural gas liquid. nymex means the new york mercantile exchange. nyse means the new york stock exchange. pioneer or the company means pioneer natural resources company and its subsidiaries. proved reserves mean the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e. , prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. the area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. in the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (iii) estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as indicated additional reserves ; (b) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. sec means the united states securities and exchange commission. standardized measure means the after-tax present value of estimated future net revenues of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the sec, using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent discount rate. with respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, net wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying gross wells, drilling locations and acres by the company working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed in u.s. dollars. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states, argentina, canada, equatorial guinea, nigeria, south africa and tunisia. the company executive offices are located at 5205 n. o connor blvd., suite 900, irving, texas 75039. the company telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; buenos aires, argentina; calgary, canada; london, england; lagos, nigeria; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2005, the company had 1,694 employees, 912 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec public reference room at 450 fifth street, n.w., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge on or through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in 2005, the company submitted the annual certification of its chief executive officer regarding the company compliance with the nyse corporate governance listing standards, pursuant to section 303a.12(a) of the nyse listed company manual. evergreen merger on september 28, 2004, pioneer completed a merger with evergreen resources, inc. ( evergreen ). pioneer acquired the common stock of evergreen for a total purchase price of approximately $1.8 billion, which was comprised of cash and pioneer common stock. evergreen was a publicly-traded independent oil and gas company primarily engaged in the production, development, exploration and acquisition of north american unconventional natural gas. evergreen operations were principally focused on developing and expanding its coal bed methane ( cbm ) field located in the raton basin in southern colorado. evergreen also had operations in the piceance basin in western colorado, the uinta basin in eastern utah and the western canada sedimentary basin. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of argentine foreign currency, operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2005, the company primary purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were williams power company, inc. (nine percent), occidental energy marketing, inc. (nine percent), conocophillips (seven percent), plains marketing lp (seven percent) and tenaska marketing (six percent). the company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. hedging activities. the company utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a description of the company hedging activities, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . if any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the company business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company common stock could decline. commodity prices. the company revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on oil and gas prices, which are affected by numerous factors beyond the company control. historically, oil and gas prices have been very volatile. a significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the company revenues, profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company oil and gas properties and goodwill and the recognition of deferred tax asset valuation allowances or an increase to the company deferred tax asset valuation allowances, depending on the company tax attributes in each country in which it has activities. pioneer makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company operating expenses, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, is largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below expectations, pioneer financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. drilling activities. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. the company future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2006 even though less than 20 percent of the company 2006 capital budget is devoted to higher-risk exploratory projects. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to reduced availability, extended delivery times and increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. the company expects that these trends will continue in the foreseeable future and, if so, will impact the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. unproved properties. at december 31, 2005, the company carried unproved property costs of $313.9 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. acquisitions. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a key element of the company growth. the company growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and the assessment of possible environmental liabilities. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. 11 table of contents divestitures. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. operation of gas processing plants. as of december 31, 2005, the company owned interests in 12 gas processing plants and three treating facilities. the company operates eight of the plants and all three treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. for example, in may 2005, the company fain gas plant was shut in for two months due to a mechanical failure that resulted in a fire. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. operating hazards and uninsured losses. the company operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, adverse weather effects and pollution and other environmental damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. increased hurricane activity over the past two years has resulted in production curtailments and physical damage to the company gulf of mexico operations. although the company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. environmental. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities and compliance may increase the cost of the company operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental and health controls above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. debt restrictions and availability. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and a variable rate credit facility. the terms of the company borrowings under the senior notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties the information included in this report about the company oil, ngl and gas reserves as of december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, which are located in the united states, argentina, canada, south africa and tunisia, were based on evaluations prepared by the company engineers and audited by netherland, sewell associates, inc. ( nsai ) with respect to the company major properties and prepared by the company engineers with respect to all other properties. the reserve audits performed by nsai in aggregate represented 82 percent, 88 percent and 87 percent of the company 2005, 2004 and 2003 proved reserves, respectively; and, 76 percent, 84 percent and 89 percent of the company 2005, 2004 and 2003 associated present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent, respectively. nsai follows the general principles set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserve information promulgated by the society of petroleum engineers ( spe ). a reserve audit as defined 14 table of contents by the spe is not the same as a financial audit. the spe definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts: a reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. the estimation of proved reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable and has been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. the methods and procedures used by a company, and the reserve information furnished by a company, must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. the auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare its own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties. to further clarify, in conjunction with the audits of the company proved reserves and associated present value discounted at ten percent, the company provided to nsai its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. based on nsai review of that data, they had the option of honoring the company interpretation, or making their own interpretation. no data was withheld from them. nsai accepted without independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by the company with respect to ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; oil, ngl and gas prices; operating and development costs; and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. however, if in the course of their evaluation something came to their attention which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, nsai did not rely on such information or data until they had satisfactorily resolved their questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. in the course of their evaluations, nsai prepared, for all of the audited properties, their own estimates of the company proved reserves and present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent. nsai estimates of those proved reserves and present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent did not differ from the company estimates by more than ten percent in the aggregate. however, when compared on a field-by-field or area-by-area basis, some of the company estimates were greater than those of nsai and some were less than the estimates of nsai. when such differences do not exceed ten percent in the aggregate and nsai is satisfied that the proved reserves and present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent are reasonable and that their audit objectives have been met, nsai will issue a completed unqualified audit opinion. remaining differences are not resolved due to the limited cost benefit of continuing such analyses by the company and nsai. at the conclusion of the audit process, it is nsai opinion, as set forth in its audit letters, that pioneer estimates of the company proved oil and gas reserves and associated future net revenues are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. the company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during 2005, 2004 or 2003 to any federal authority or agency, other than the sec. the company reserve estimates do not include any probable or possible reserves. proved reserves the company proved reserves totaled 986.7 mmboe, 1.0 billion boe and 789.1 mmboe at december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, representing $7.3 billion, $6.6 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively, of standardized measure. the company proved reserves include field fuel which is gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. the following table shows 15 table of contents the changes in the company proved reserve volumes by geographic area during the year ended december 31, 2005 (in mboe): discoveries and production extensions acquisitions divestitures revisions total united states (49,210 ) 17,494 79,663 (37,964 ) (29,049 ) (19,066 ) argentina (11,874 ) 7,602 (20,881 ) (25,153 ) canada (2,922 ) 9,840 49 (9,947 ) 3,082 102 africa (3,674 ) 12,109 184 8,619 total (67,680 ) 47,045 79,712 (47,911 ) (46,664 ) (35,498 ) production. production volumes include (a) 2,409 mboe of field fuel and (b) 1,188 mboe of production associated with certain divested assets being presented as discontinued operations. discoveries and extensions. discoveries and extensions are primarily the result of (a) drilling activity in the raton basin in the united states, horseshoe canyon and chinchaga fields in canada and the neuquen basin in argentina and (b) the approval to begin development of the gas reserves, previously discovered, off the south coast of south africa. acquisitions. acquisition volumes are primarily attributable to the (a) july 2005 announced completion of the acquisition of 70 mboe of proved reserves in the spraberry field and gulf coast area and (b) other smaller acquisitions. divestitures. the divestitures are primarily attributable to (a) the sale of approximately 28 mmboe of proved reserves in the spraberry and hugoton fields through three vpps, (b) the sale of approximately 10 mmboe of proved reserves in properties on the shelf of the gulf of mexico and east texas and (c) the sale of approximately 10 mmboe of proved reserves in the martin creek and conroy black areas of northeast british columbia and the lookout butte area of southern alberta. revisions. the overall downward revisions are primarily attributable to (a) the recent drilling results in the deep gas reserves in the neuquen basin of argentina which indicated that the gas reservoirs are more complex and compartmentalized than expected, and (b) additional production decline history on producing wells and unexpected drilling results in certain areas of the field in the raton basin in the united states where a number of wells drilled on the northern rim of the field during the second half of 2005 encountered less cbm reservoir than expected due to nonproductive volcanic intrusions into the coal interval. the downward revisions were offset by increased commodity prices that extended the economic life on various properties. on a boe basis, 62 percent of the company total proved reserves at december 31, 2005 were proved developed reserves. based on reserve information as of december 31, 2005, and using the company production information for the year then ended, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the company proved reserves was 15 years on a boe basis. the following table provides information regarding the company proved reserves and average daily sales volumes by geographic area as of and for the year ended december 31, 2005: 2005 average daily proved reserves as of december 31, 2005(a) sales volumes(b) oil oil ngls gas standardized ngls gas (mbbls) (mmcf) mboe measure (bbls) (mcf) boe (in thousands) united states 385,771 2,750,856 844,247 $ 6,078,764 43,345 497,068 126,191 argentina 34,024 404,323 101,411 807,897 (c) 9,693 137,032 32,531 canada 2,423 130,514 24,175 254,067 713 36,427 6,784 africa 6,824 60,395 16,890 156,169 10,065 10,065 total 429,042 3,346,088 986,723 $ 7,296,897 63,816 670,527 175,571 (a) the gas reserves contain 306 mmcf of gas that will be produced and utilized as field fuel. 16 table of contents (b) the 2005 average daily sales volumes are from continuing operations and (i) do not include the field fuel produced, which averaged 6,599 boepd and (ii) were calculated using a 365-day year and without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the year. (c) assuming the argentine export tax on oil remains in place after the expiration date of the law in february 2007 the standardized measure of discounted future cash flows for argentina would be approximately $633 million at december 31, 2005. the following table represents the estimated timing and cash flows of developing the company proved undeveloped reserves as of december 31, 2005: estimated future future future future production cash production development future net year ended december 31, (mboe) inflows costs costs cash flows ($ in thousands) 2006 5,694 $ 204,592 $ 26,656 $ 666,238 $ (488,302 ) 2007 15,552 603,300 78,878 502,221 22,201 2008 19,470 740,419 101,040 375,092 264,287 2009 21,306 825,809 119,378 208,685 497,746 2010 21,652 862,436 130,472 212,670 519,294 thereafter 287,562 13,008,489 3,408,631 729,274 8,870,584 371,236 $ 16,245,045 $ 3,865,055 $ 2,694,180 $ 9,685,810 description of properties as of december 31, 2005, the company has production, development and/or exploration operations in the united states, argentina, canada, equatorial guinea, nigeria, south africa and tunisia. united states approximately 78 percent of the company proved reserves at december 31, 2005 is located in the spraberry field in the permian basin area, the hugoton and west panhandle fields of the mid-continent area and the raton field in the rocky mountain area. these fields generate substantial operating cash flow and the spraberry and raton fields have a large portfolio of low risk drilling opportunities. the cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the company other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally. the company has preliminarily budgeted approximately $900 million to $1.0 billion for exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2006. the following tables summarize the company development and exploration/extension drilling activities during 2005: development drilling beginning wells wells successful unsuccessful ending wells in progress spud wells wells in progress spraberry field 13 181 170 1 23 hugoton field 1 18 18 1 west panhandle field 11 42 50 3 raton field 262 262 other 7 38 37 2 6 total united states 32 541 537 7 29 17 table of contents exploration/extension drilling beginning wells wells successful unsuccessful ending wells in progress spud wells wells in progress raton field 27 26 1 other 9 18 14 7 6 total united states 9 45 40 7 7 the following table summarizes by geographic area the company costs incurred, excluding asset retirement obligations, during 2005 and the total wells preliminarily planned to be drilled during 2006: property 2006 acquisition costs exploration development wells proved unproved costs costs total planned (in thousands) united states: permian basin $ 145,244 $ 2,520 $ 1,236 $ 130,308 $ 279,308 365 mid-continent 163 34 40,808 41,005 28 rocky mountain 20,050 13,207 132,876 166,133 379 gulf of mexico 12,374 150,305 94,552 257,231 4 (a) onshore gulf coast 22,407 26,390 8,871 44,412 102,080 35 alaska (773 ) 44,070 5,427 48,724 3 total united states $ 167,814 $ 60,561 $ 217,723 $ 448,383 $ 894,481 814 (a) includes two sidetrack wells proposed by the operator in the aconcagua field and two delineation wells planned on the clipper discovery. permian basin spraberry field. the spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in west texas. the field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. the oil produced is west texas intermediate sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 btu. the oil and gas are produced primarily from three formations, the upper and lower spraberry and the dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. recently, the company has begun completing selected wells in the wolfcamp formation at depths ranging from 9,300 feet to 10,300 feet with successful results. the company believes the area offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas production because of the numerous undeveloped drilling locations, many of which are reflected in the company proved undeveloped reserves, and the ability to contain operating expenses through economies of scale. mid-continent hugoton field. the hugoton field in southwest kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental united states. the gas is produced from the chase and council grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. the company gas in the hugoton field has an average energy content of 1,025 btu. the company hugoton properties are located on approximately 257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. the company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells in the hugoton field, about 1,000 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 wells. the company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the satanta plant, that service its production from the hugoton field. such ownership allows the company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and ngl production. the company hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately 74 mmcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing or field fuel use and before reduction for royalties), although actual production in the hugoton field is limited by allowables set by state regulators. the company estimates that it 18 table of contents and other major producers in the hugoton field produced near allowable capacity during the year ended december 31, 2005. west panhandle field. the west panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of texas. these stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the red cave, brown dolomite, granite wash and fractured granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. the company gas in the west panhandle field has an average energy content of 1,300 btu and is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 250,000 gross acres covering over 375 square miles. the company controls 100 percent of the wells, production equipment, gathering system and gas processing plant for the field. rocky mountains raton field. the raton basin properties are located in the southeast portion of colorado. exploration for cbm in the raton basin began in the late 1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies drilling and testing more than 100 wells during this period. the absence of a pipeline to transport gas from the raton basin prevented full scale development until january 1995, when colorado interstate gas company completed the construction of the picketwire lateral pipeline system. the company gas in the raton basin has an average energy content of 1,000 btu. since the completion of the picketwire lateral, production has continued to grow, resulting in expansion of the system capacity by its operator, the most recent expansion of which was in october 2005. the company owns approximately 385,000 gross acres in the center of the raton basin with current production from coal seams of the vermejo and raton formations. piceance/uinta basins. the piceance basin is located in the central portion of western colorado, and the uinta basin is located in the central portion of eastern utah. the company owns approximately 115,000 acres covering producing and prospective regions of the piceance and uinta basins. currently, production is established from various tight sandstone, coal and shale formations. sand wash basin. the sand wash basin is the site of a potential cbm project located north of the company piceance basin properties. the company holds a 50 percent operated interest in 114,000 gross acres in the lay creek field. in 2006, the company plans to (i) refrac the wells drilled by the previous owner in two existing pilots, specifically targeting coal seams to reduce water handling and (ii) drill an additional two or three pilot programs to evaluate the potential of the project. gulf of mexico gulf of mexico area. in the gulf of mexico, the company has focused on reserve and production growth by drilling its portfolio of shelf and deepwater development projects, high-impact, higher-risk shelf and deepwater exploration prospects and exploitation opportunities inherent in the properties the company currently has producing on the shelf. during september 2005, the company announced its plans to pursue the divestment of its deepwater gulf of mexico assets to reduce the exploration risk and production volatility that have been associated with these assets. the deepwater gulf of mexico bid process has been completed and the company is currently in negotiations for the sale of these assets. no assurance can be given that a sale can be completed on terms acceptable to the company. however, if successfully completed, such a divestiture would remove the deepwater gulf of mexico from the company portfolio of oil and gas activities. during 2005, the company had five significant projects in the deepwater gulf of mexico, which are discussed below: canyon express the canyon express project is a joint development of three deepwater gulf of mexico gas discoveries, including the company total e p usa-operated aconcagua field and marathon-operated camden hills fields, where the company holds 37.5 percent and 33.3 percent working interests, respectively. the company participated in the discovery of the aconcagua gas field in 1999 and later added camden hills to its portfolio to enhance its ownership in the project. the canyon express project was approved for development in june 2000 and reached first production in september 2002. the existing aconcagua and camden hills wells are expected to reach the end of their productive lives in early 19 table of contents 2006; therefore, the company now anticipates that the system will be shut in once the recoverable reserves are fully produced until a rig becomes available to drill sidetrack wells in the aconcagua field. the company has been advised by the operator of the canyon express system that sidetrack operations are planned for the aconcagua field in late 2006. falcon corridor the falcon corridor project started with the company falcon field discovery during 2001, followed by the 2003 harrier, raptor and tomahawk discoveries. the company owns a 100 percent working interest in the falcon corridor discoveries and surrounding areas. first production from falcon occurred in march 2003, followed by production from harrier, raptor and tomahawk in 2004. during 2005, the harrier, raptor and tomahawk fields were fully depleted. devils tower area the dominion-operated devils tower development project was sanctioned in 2001 as a spar development project with the owners leasing a spar from a third party for the life of the field. the spar has slots for eight dry tree wells and up to four subsea tie-back risers and is capable of handling 60 mbbls of oil per day and 60 mmcf of gas per day. devils tower production operations were initiated in 2004 prior to being shut in due to hurricane ivan. production was resumed in november 2004. in addition to the devils tower wells, three subsea tie-back wells in the goldfinger and triton satellite discoveries in the devils tower area were jointly tied back to the devils tower spar in november of 2005. the company holds a 25 percent working interest in each of these projects. thunder hawk the murphy exploration and production company-operated thunder hawk discovery in 2004 encountered in excess of 300 feet of net oil pay in two high-quality reservoir zones in mississippi canyon block 734. the third appraisal well was spudded during the fourth quarter of 2005 and plans to complete the drilling of the previously spudded second well, which was temporarily suspended due to weather. these wells are expected to be completed during the first half of 2006. the company owns a 12.5 percent working interest in this discovery. clipper during the fourth quarter of 2005, the company announced a discovery on its clipper prospect in the green canyon block 299. the company plans additional drilling during 2006 to further delineate the field. the company operates the block with a 55 percent working interest. onshore gulf coast south texas. the company has focused its drilling efforts in this area on the pawnee field in the edwards reef trend in south texas. the edwards reef trend is a tight gas limestone reservoir characterized by narrow bands of dry gas fields extending over 250 miles. in addition to the pawnee field, the company has operations in the sw kenedy and washburn fields of the edwards reef trend and a growing acreage position with over 160,000 acres acquired during the past year. production depths in the trend range from 9,500 feet to 14,000 feet, from which over 1 trillion cubic feet of gas has been produced by the oil and gas industry. the company drilled its first successful exploration well in the recently acquired acreage in the edwards reef trend in late 2005 and is currently producing approximately 1.3 mmcf of gas per day from the discovery. pioneer current plans include drilling at least 20 wells in the edwards reef trend during 2006, leveraging the company horizontal drilling expertise. northern louisiana and mississippi. the company has acquired significant acreage in northern louisiana and mississippi. during 2006, the company is planning exploratory tests in the hosston/cotton valley trend in northern louisiana and a norphlet prospect in mississippi. alaska north slope area. during 2002, the company acquired a 70 percent working interest and operatorship in ten state leases on alaska north slope. associated therewith, the company drilled three exploratory wells during 2003 to test a possible extension of the productive sands in the kuparuk river field in the shallow waters offshore. although all three of the wells found the sands filled with oil, they were too thin to be considered commercial on a stand-alone basis. however, the wells also encountered thick sections of oil-bearing jurassic-aged sands, and the first well flowed at a rate of approximately 1,300 bbls per day ( bpd ). in january 2004, the company farmed-into a large acreage block to the southwest of the company discovery. in the fourth quarter of 2004, pioneer completed 20 table of contents an extensive technical and economic evaluation of the resource potential within this area. as a result of this evaluation, the company performed front-end engineering and permitting activities during 2005 to further define the scope of the project. in february 2006, the company announced that it has approved and is commencing the development of the oooguruk field in the project area. following the construction of a gravel drilling and production site in 2006, installation of a subsea flowline and facilities are planned for 2007 to carry produced liquids to existing onshore processing facilities at the kuparuk river unit. between 2007 and 2009, pioneer plans to drill approximately 40 horizontal wells in the oooguruk field. total gross capital invested, including projected drilling and facility costs, is expected to range from $450 million to $525 million. first production from these wells is expected to begin in 2008. during the first quarter of 2006, pioneer anticipates drilling two exploration wells as operator, one with a 50 percent working interest in the storms area, and a second, under a farm-in agreement with conocophillips, with a 90 percent working interest on the cronus prospect. under another farm-in agreement with conocophillips, pioneer plans to participate with a 32.5 percent working interest in a third exploration well to be drilled on conocophillips antigua prospect. cosmopolitan. during 2005, pioneer announced that it entered into an agreement on the cosmopolitan unit in the cook inlet. under this agreement, pioneer earned a ten percent working interest in the unit from conocophillips through a disproportionate spending arrangement for a 3-d seismic program undertaken during the fourth quarter of 2005. pursuant to this agreement, pioneer has the option to acquire an additional 40 percent interest in the cosmopolitan unit any time prior to june 1, 2006. upon evaluation of the results of the aforementioned 3-d seismic program, pioneer will determine whether or not to exercise this option. international the company international operations are located in the neuquen and austral basins areas of argentina, the chinchaga and horseshoe canyon areas of canada, the sable oil field offshore south africa and in southern tunisia. additionally, the company has other development and exploration activities in the shallow waters offshore south africa and oil development and exploration activities in equatorial guinea, nigeria and tunisia. as of december 31, 2005, approximately ten percent, two percent and two percent of the company proved reserves were located in argentina, canada and africa, respectively. the following tables summarize the company development and exploration/extension drilling activities outside the united states during 2005: development drilling beginning wells wells successful unsuccessful ending wells in progress spud wells wells in progress argentina 6 65 65 4 2 canada 3 27 27 3 total international 9 92 92 4 5 exploration/extension drilling beginning wells wells successful unsuccessful ending wells in progress spud wells wells in progress argentina 8 29 19 14 4 canada 21 182 87 7 109 nigeria 1 1 south africa 2 1 1 tunisia 2 4 2 2 2 total international 33 216 109 24 116 21 table of contents the following table summarizes by geographic area the company international costs incurred, excluding asset retirement obligations, during 2005 and the total wells preliminarily planned to be drilled during 2006: property 2006 acquisition costs exploration development wells proved unproved costs costs total planned (in thousands) argentina $ $ 512 $ 36,878 $ 85,786 $ 123,176 canada 2,593 7,344 43,437 77,962 131,336 298 africa: equatorial guinea 3,395 3,395 1 nigeria 30,663 34,134 64,797 1 south africa 260 755 13,638 14,653 4 tunisia 18,395 2,847 21,242 9 other 6,926 292 7,218 total international $ 2,593 $ 38,779 $ 143,920 $ 180,525 $ 365,817 313 argentina. the company operated production in argentina is concentrated in the neuquen basin, which is located about 925 miles southwest of buenos aires and to the east of the andes mountains. oil and gas are produced primarily from the al norte de la dorsal, the al sur de la dorsal, the dadin, the loma negra, the dos hermanas, the anticlinal campamento and the estaci n fern ndez oro blocks, in each of which the company has a 100 percent working interest. most of the gas produced from these blocks is processed in the company loma negra gas processing plant. the company operates the meseta sirven block located in the southern part of the san jorge basin in santa cruz province, approximately 1,200 miles south of buenos aires. the production from this block, in which the company has a 100 percent working interest, is primarily oil. the company also operates and has a 50 percent working interest in the lago fuego field, which is located in tierra del fuego, an island in the extreme southern portion of argentina, approximately 1,500 miles south of buenos aires. most of the company nonoperated production in argentina is located in tierra del fuego, the most southern province in argentina, where oil, gas and ngls are produced from six separate fields in which the company has a 35 percent working interest. the company also has a 14.4 percent working interest in the confluencia field which is located in the neuquen basin. during september 2005, the company announced that it would pursue the sale of its nonoperated position in tierra del fuego. during the tierra del fuego sales process, several prospective buyers indicated that they could enhance their value for a transaction in argentina if it included all of pioneer properties. the company decided that if a buyer presented an attractive offer for all of the argentine assets, that it would consider exiting argentina. on january 17, 2006, the company announced signing an agreement with apache corporation to sell all of the company interests in argentina for $675 million (subject to normal closing adjustments). the transaction is expected to close during the latter part of the first quarter or in early april of 2006. canada. the company canadian producing properties are located primarily in alberta and british columbia, canada. in may 2005, the company sold its ownership interests in the martin creek and conroy black areas of northeast british columbia and the lookout butte area of southern alberta for net proceeds of $197.2 million. the company continues to exploit lower risk opportunities identified in the chinchaga field core area of northeast british columbia. the company also initiated significant drilling, pipeline and facility activities in south-central alberta targeting horseshoe canyon cbm potential on the existing land base in the greater drumheller area. production from the chinchaga area of northeast british columbia is relatively dry gas from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet. the greater drumheller area in south-central alberta produces cbm gas, cbm condensate and minor oil from cretaceous to devonian formations at depths ranging from 400 to 6,500 feet. the company has cbm gas production currently from the horseshoe canyon coal and further exploitation drilling will occur throughout the area in 2006. 22 table of contents equatorial guinea. the company owns a 50 percent working interest in block h offshore equatorial guinea. the company has identified several prospects on the block that are being evaluated for future drilling, one of which is expected to be drilled during 2006 or 2007. nigeria. a partially-owned subsidiary of the company joined oranto petroleum and orandi petroleum in an existing production sharing contract on block 320 in deepwater nigeria gaining exploration rights from the nigerian national petroleum corporation. the subsidiary, which holds a 51 percent interest in block 320, is owned 59 percent by the company and 41 percent by an unaffiliated third party. the company acquired 3-d seismic data in 2005, is currently processing the seismic and plans to drill the first well in block 320 during 2007. the company owns a 26 percent working interest in devon-operated block 256 offshore nigeria. the company participated in an unsuccessful exploratory well on this block during 2005 and is participating in a second exploration well that spudded during january 2006. the timing of a third exploration well planned for the block has not been determined. the company had previously announced it was awarded, through a consortium, rights to acreage in blocks 2 and 3 of the joint development zone in offshore nigeria, o tom and pr ncipe subject to negotiating acceptable joint operating and production sharing agreements. on february 7, 2006, the company announced that it was withdrawing from participation in both blocks. south africa. the company has agreements to explore for oil and gas offshore south africa covering over five million acres along the southern coast in water depths generally less than 650 feet. the sable oil field began producing in august 2003 and the majority of the gas from the field has been reinjected. the company has a 40 percent working interest in the sable field. in december 2005, the company announced the final approvals with its partner in the south coast gas project. pioneer has a 45 percent working interest in the project. the project will include subsea tie-back of gas from the sable field and six additional gas accumulations to the existing production facilities on the f-a platform for transportation via existing pipelines to a gas-to-liquids ( gtl ) plant. the company has signed a contract for the sale of its share of gas and condensate to the gtl plant. production is expected to begin during the second half of 2007 and increase to an average of approximately 100 mmcf per day of gas and 3,000 bpd of condensate over the initial phase of the project through 2012. development drilling related to the project is expected to commence in the first quarter of 2006. tunisia. the company tunisian permits can be separated into three categories: (i) three permits covering 2.9 million acres which the company operates with an average 55 percent working interest, (ii) the anadarko-operated anaguid and jenein nord permits covering over 1.5 million acres in which the company has a 45 percent working interest and (iii) the eni-operated adam concession and borj el khadra permit covering approximately 212,000 acres and 970,000 acres, respectively, in which the company has a 20 percent and 40 percent working interest, respectively. production from the adam concession began in may 2003. all permits are onshore southern tunisia. in 2005, the company conducted an extended production test of one of the two existing anaguid block exploration wells and drilled an offset appraisal well to the other exploration well. the results of the extended production test were unfavorable. however, the appraisal well offsetting the second discovery encountered gas and condensate in a similar horizon to the initial well. the company is currently reviewing data from the appraisal well to determine whether development of the area is economical. selected oil and gas information the following tables set forth selected oil and gas information from continuing operations for the company as of and for each of the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results. production, price and cost data. the following tables set forth production, price and cost data with respect to the company properties for 2005, 2004 and 2003. these amounts represent the company historical results from 23 table of contents continuing operations without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the respective years. the production amounts will not agree to the reserve volume tables in the unaudited supplementary information section included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of argentine foreign currency, operations and price risk. 24 table of contents production, price and cost data year ended december 31, 2005 united states argentina canada africa total production information: annual sales volumes: oil (mbbls) 9,469 2,872 77 3,674 16,092 ngls (mbbls) 6,351 666 184 7,201 gas (mmcf) 181,429 50,017 13,296 244,742 total (mboe) 46,059 11,874 2,476 3,674 64,083 average daily sales volumes: oil (bbls) 25,943 7,869 210 10,065 44,087 ngls (bbls) 17,402 1,824 503 19,729 gas (mcf) 497,068 137,032 36,427 670,527 total (boe) 126,191 32,531 6,784 10,065 175,571 average prices, including hedge results: oil (per bbl) $ 31.09 $ 36.88 $ 52.12 $ 53.00 $ 37.22 ngls (per bbl) $ 31.72 $ 33.17 $ 45.79 $ $ 32.22 gas (per mcf) $ 6.83 $ .88 $ 7.67 $ $ 5.66 revenue (per boe) $ 37.66 $ 14.50 $ 46.18 $ 53.00 $ 34.57 average prices, excluding hedge results: oil (per bbl) $ 54.05 $ 36.88 $ 52.12 $ 53.00 $ 50.74 ngls (per bbl) $ 31.72 $ 33.17 $ 45.79 $ $ 32.22 gas (per mcf) $ 7.94 $ .88 $ 7.67 $ $ 6.49 revenue (per boe) $ 46.78 $ 14.50 $ 46.18 $ 53.00 $ 41.14 average costs (per boe): production costs: lease operating $ 4.87 $ 2.97 $ 12.94 $ 8.82 $ 5.07 taxes: ad valorem .88 .63 production 1.30 .23 .97 workover .36 .06 1.89 .34 total $ 7.41 $ 3.26 $ 14.83 $ 8.82 $ 7.01 depletion expense $ 8.71 $ 7.13 $ 12.71 $ 7.96 $ 8.53 25 table of contents production, price and cost data (continued) year ended december 31, 2004 united states argentina canada africa total production information: annual sales volumes: oil (mbbls) 9,041 3,123 26 4,274 16,464 ngls (mbbls) 7,203 566 155 7,924 gas (mmcf) 188,964 44,525 9,372 242,861 total (mboe) 47,738 11,110 1,743 4,274 64,865 average daily sales volumes: oil (bbls) 24,700 8,534 72 11,676 44,982 ngls (bbls) 19,678 1,546 425 21,649 gas (mcf) 516,294 121,654 25,606 663,554 total (boe) 130,428 30,356 4,764 11,676 177,224 average prices, including hedge results: oil (per bbl) $ 29.69 $ 28.06 $ 48.37 $ 38.12 $ 31.60 ngls (per bbl) $ 25.05 $ 29.91 $ 32.03 $ $ 25.54 gas (per mcf) $ 5.14 $ .66 $ 4.72 $ $ 4.30 revenue (per boe) $ 29.75 $ 12.07 $ 28.93 $ 38.12 $ 27.25 average prices, excluding hedge results: oil (per bbl) $ 39.54 $ 29.82 $ 48.37 $ 38.71 $ 37.49 ngls (per bbl) $ 25.05 $ 29.91 $ 32.03 $ $ 25.54 gas (per mcf) $ 5.71 $ .66 $ 5.37 $ $ 4.78 revenue (per boe) $ 33.89 $ 12.56 $ 32.48 $ 38.71 $ 30.51 average costs (per boe): production costs: lease operating $ 3.27 $ 2.75 $ 9.92 $ 7.37 $ 3.63 taxes: ad valorem .58 .43 production .78 .23 .61 workover .24 .01 .87 .21 total $ 4.87 $ 2.99 $ 10.79 $ 7.37 $ 4.88 depletion expense $ 8.62 $ 5.56 $ 12.93 $ 11.19 $ 8.38 26 table of contents production, price and cost data (continued) year ended december 31, 2003 united states argentina canada africa total production information: annual sales volumes: oil (mbbls) 8,215 3,171 13 723 12,122 ngls (mbbls) 7,411 481 173 8,065 gas (mmcf) 152,560 34,357 9,774 196,691 total (mboe) 41,054 9,378 1,815 723 52,970 average daily sales volumes: oil (bbls) 22,509 8,687 35 1,981 33,212 ngls (bbls) 20,306 1,318 473 22,097 gas (mcf) 417,972 94,128 26,779 538,879 total (boe) 112,477 25,693 4,971 1,981 145,122 average prices, including hedge results: oil (per bbl) $ 25.09 $ 25.62 $ 28.00 $ 29.52 $ 25.50 ngls (per bbl) $ 19.03 $ 22.85 $ 24.30 $ $ 19.38 gas (per mcf) $ 4.45 $ .56 $ 4.65 $ $ 3.78 revenue (per boe) $ 24.99 $ 11.87 $ 27.56 $ 29.52 $ 22.82 average prices, excluding hedge results: oil (per bbl) $ 29.52 $ 26.31 $ 28.00 $ 30.07 $ 28.71 ngls (per bbl) $ 19.03 $ 22.85 $ 24.30 $ $ 19.38 gas (per mcf) $ 4.91 $ .56 $ 4.79 $ $ 4.15 revenue (per boe) $ 27.59 $ 12.10 $ 28.31 $ 30.07 $ 24.91 average costs (per boe): production costs: lease operating $ 3.01 $ 2.57 $ 8.83 $ 3.87 $ 3.14 taxes: ad valorem .52 .41 production .75 .20 .12 .62 workover .16 .01 .38 .14 total $ 4.44 $ 2.78 $ 9.21 $ 3.99 $ 4.31 depletion expense $ 7.06 $ 4.96 $ 11.42 $ 10.69 $ 6.89 27 table of contents productive wells. the following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the company properties as of december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: productive wells(a) gross productive wells net productive wells oil gas total oil gas total as of december 31, 2005: united states 4,300 3,955 8,255 3,531 3,669 7,200 argentina 821 261 1,082 684 202 886 canada 65 675 740 30 511 541 africa 12 12 4 4 total 5,198 4,891 10,089 4,249 4,382 8,631 as of december 31, 2004: united states 3,999 3,990 7,989 3,288 3,563 6,851 argentina 744 226 970 607 168 775 canada 38 489 527 25 358 383 africa 9 9 3 3 total 4,790 4,705 9,495 3,923 4,089 8,012 as of december 31, 2003: united states 3,691 2,012 5,703 2,978 1,907 4,885 argentina 669 194 863 539 141 680 canada 4 268 272 4 210 214 africa 7 7 2 2 total 4,371 2,474 6,845 3,523 2,258 5,781 (a) productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells. one or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well. if any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, then the well is classified as an oil well. as of december 31, 2005, the company owned interests in 214 gross wells containing multiple completions. leasehold acreage. the following table sets forth information about the company developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of december 31, 2005: leasehold acreage developed acreage undeveloped acreage royalty gross acres net acres gross acres net acres acreage united states: onshore 1,362,840 1,186,135 2,294,074 927,528 289,517 offshore 131,852 61,718 773,919 595,332 10,500 1,494,692 1,247,853 3,067,993 1,522,860 300,017 argentina 736,000 342,000 953,000 870,000 canada 245,000 177,000 475,000 348,000 24,000 africa 337,020 106,571 9,873,962 5,230,077 total 2,812,712 1,873,424 14,369,955 7,970,937 324,017 28 table of contents the following table sets forth the expiration dates of the leases on the company gross and net undeveloped acres as of december 31, 2005: acres expiring(a) gross net 2006(b) 3,043,642 1,627,381 2007 6,494,885 3,708,934 2008 432,316 311,651 2009 604,350 199,776 2010 125,242 91,798 thereafter 3,669,520 2,031,397 total 14,369,955 7,970,937 (a) acres expiring are based on contractual lease maturities. (b) acres subject to expiration during 2006 include 2.6 million gross acres (1.3 million net acres) in tunisia, 97,952 gross acres (48,976 net acres) in equatorial guinea and 309,069 gross acres (207,200 net acres) in north america. the company may extend these leases prior to their expiration based upon 2006 planned activities or for other business reasons. in certain of these leases, the extension is only subject to the company election to extend and the fulfillment of certain capital expenditure commitments. in other cases, the extensions are subject to the consent of third parties, and no assurance can be given that the requested extensions will be granted. see description of properties above for information regarding the company drilling operations. 29 table of contents drilling activities. the following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry hole wells in which the company had an interest that were drilled during 2005, 2004 and 2003. this information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there was any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes. drilling activities gross wells net wells year ended december 31, year ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 united states: productive wells: development 537 268 244 504.6 243.1 210.5 exploratory 40 8 4 36.8 5.3 4.0 dry holes: development 7 3 6 6.8 3.0 6.0 exploratory 7 6 6 5.3 3.0 3.6 591 285 260 553.5 254.4 224.1 argentina: productive wells: development 65 43 29 64.4 41.7 29.0 exploratory 19 21 21 17.8 21.0 21.0 dry holes: development 4 1 2 4.0 1.0 2.0 exploratory 14 10 9 14.0 9.5 9.0 102 75 61 100.2 73.2 61.0 canada: productive wells: development 27 3 7 26.3 3.0 7.0 exploratory 87 27 16 71.5 24.5 14.9 dry holes: development 7 6.5 exploratory 7 24 26 6.5 23.3 21.1 121 54 56 104.3 50.8 49.5 africa: productive wells: development 2 1 .6 .3 exploratory 3 2 1 1.2 1.4 .4 dry holes: development exploratory 3 5 4 1.2 4.4 3.5 6 9 6 2.4 6.4 4.2 total 820 423 383 760.4 384.8 338.8 success ratio(a) 95 % 88 % 84 % 95 % 89 % 85 % (a) represents the ratio of those wells that were successfully completed as producing wells or wells capable of producing to total wells drilled and evaluated. 30 table of contents the following table sets forth information about the company wells upon which drilling was in progress as of december 31, 2005: gross wells net wells united states: development 29 24.8 exploratory 7 4.1 36 28.9 argentina: development 2 2.0 exploratory 4 4.0 6 6.0 canada: development 3 2.3 exploratory 109 98.0 112 100.3 africa: development exploratory 3 1.4 3 1.4 total 157 136.6 item 3. legal proceedings the company is party to the legal proceedings that are described under legal actions in note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for disclosures about the company commodity related derivative financial instruments. preliminary 2006 capital budget. in certain of its prior annual reports on form 10-k, the company has provided detailed information on its next year capital allocation and first quarter guidance with respect to production costs and expenses. as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the company proposed divestitures of its argentine and deepwater gulf of mexico assets, the company is presently unable to provide similar information for 2006. the company has prepared a preliminary capital budget that does not include capital for its argentine assets but does include limited capital for the company deepwater gulf of mexico assets. the preliminary budget is approximately $1.3 billion and includes plans to drill 1,000 to 1,100 wells. the company preliminary 2006 capital 38 table of contents budget is heavily focused on development and extension drilling, including funding for the recently sanctioned oooguruk and south coast gas projects. less than 20 percent of the preliminary 2006 capital budget is for exploration activities. the company final allocation of capital during 2006 is subject to the approval of the board and is dependent on the outcome of the planned divestitures. accordingly, the final budget may differ materially from the preliminary budget. results of operations oil and gas revenues. revenues from oil and gas operations totaled $2.2 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the revenue increase during 2005, as compared to 2004, was due to an 18 percent increase in oil prices, a 26 percent increase in ngl prices and a 32 percent increase in gas prices, including the effects of commodity price hedges, partially offset by a one percent decrease in average daily boe sales volumes. the revenue increase from 2003 to 2004 was due to a 22 percent increase in average daily boe sales volumes, a 24 percent increase in oil prices, a 32 percent increase in ngl prices and a 14 percent increase in gas prices, including the effects of commodity price hedges. the following table provides average daily sales volumes from continuing operations, by geographic area and in total, for 2005, 2004 and 2003: year ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 oil (bbls): united states 25,943 24,700 22,509 argentina 7,869 8,534 8,687 canada 210 72 35 africa 10,065 11,676 1,981 worldwide 44,087 44,982 33,212 ngls (bbls): united states 17,402 19,678 20,306 argentina 1,824 1,546 1,318 canada 503 425 473 worldwide 19,729 21,649 22,097 gas (mcf): united states 497,068 516,294 417,972 argentina 137,032 121,654 94,128 canada 36,427 25,606 26,779 worldwide 670,527 663,554 538,879 total (boe): united states 126,191 130,428 112,476 argentina 32,531 30,356 25,694 canada 6,784 4,764 4,971 africa 10,065 11,676 1,981 worldwide 175,571 177,224 145,122 per boe average daily production for 2005, as compared to 2004, increased by seven percent in argentina and by 42 percent in canada, while average daily sales volumes decreased by three percent in the united states and by 14 percent in africa. 39 table of contents average daily sales volumes from continuing operations in the united states was slightly lower in 2005 as compared to 2004 principally due to declining production in the gulf of mexico, asset divestitures and downtime at the fain gas plant offset by a full year of production from the properties acquired in the evergreen merger. argentine average daily sales volumes increased as a result of successful development drilling and increased market demand during argentina summer season. the company has increased its level of capital expenditures in argentina as the stability of the argentine peso and the general economic outlook for argentina has improved and gas prices have increased. canadian average daily sales volumes from continuing operations increased due to new production from canadian properties acquired in the evergreen merger and production from new wells drilled during 2005. production is down in south africa due to normal production declines and timing of oil shipments, partially offset by continued growth in tunisia production. per boe average daily production for 2004, as compared to 2003, increased by 16 percent in the united states, increased by 18 percent in argentina, decreased by four percent in canada and the company realized first production from south africa and tunisia during 2003. the increased production was principally attributable to (i) a full year of production from the falcon area, (ii) new production being initiated from the harrier, raptor and tomahawk fields in the falcon area and at devils tower, (iii) fourth quarter production added from the evergreen merger and (iv) oil sales having first been realized from the company tunisian and south african oil projects during august and october of 2003, respectively. argentine oil and gas sales volumes increased during 2004 primarily due to incremental production volumes that resulted from the company expanded drilling program and higher oil and gas demand during the summer season. the following table provides average daily sales volumes from discontinued operations during 2005, 2004 and 2003: year ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 oil (bbls): united states 1,279 1,937 2,016 canada 28 65 76 worldwide 1,307 2,002 2,092 ngls (bbls): united states 65 60 32 canada 112 492 433 worldwide 177 552 465 gas (mcf): united states 4,136 5,545 5,041 canada 6,489 16,261 14,890 worldwide 10,625 21,806 19,931 total (boe): united states 2,033 2,921 2,888 canada 1,221 3,267 2,991 worldwide 3,254 6,188 5,879 40 table of contents the following table provides average reported prices from continuing operations, including the results of hedging activities, and average realized prices from continuing operations, excluding the results of hedging activities, by geographic area and in total, for 2005, 2004 and 2003: year ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 average reported prices: oil (per bbl): united states $ 31.09 $ 29.69 $ 25.09 argentina $ 36.88 $ 28.06 $ 25.62 canada $ 52.12 $ 48.37 $ 28.00 africa $ 53.00 $ 38.12 $ 29.52 worldwide $ 37.22 $ 31.60 $ 25.50 ngl (per bbl): united states $ 31.72 $ 25.05 $ 19.03 argentina $ 33.17 $ 29.91 $ 22.85 canada $ 45.79 $ 32.03 $ 24.30 worldwide $ 32.22 $ 25.54 $ 19.38 gas (per mcf): united states $ 6.83 $ 5.14 $ 4.45 argentina $ .88 $ .66 $ .56 canada $ 7.67 $ 4.72 $ 4.65 worldwide $ 5.66 $ 4.30 $ 3.78 average realized prices: oil (per bbl): united states $ 54.05 $ 39.54 $ 29.52 argentina $ 36.88 $ 29.82 $ 26.31 canada $ 52.12 $ 48.37 $ 28.00 africa $ 53.00 $ 38.71 $ 30.07 worldwide $ 50.74 $ 37.49 $ 28.71 ngl (per bbl): united states $ 31.72 $ 25.05 $ 19.03 argentina $ 33.17 $ 29.91 $ 22.85 canada $ 45.79 $ 32.03 $ 24.30 worldwide $ 32.22 $ 25.54 $ 19.38 gas (per mcf): united states $ 7.94 $ 5.71 $ 4.91 argentina $ .88 $ .66 $ .56 canada $ 7.67 $ 5.37 $ 4.79 worldwide $ 6.49 $ 4.78 $ 4.15 hedging activities. the oil and gas prices that the company reports are based on the market price received for the commodities adjusted by the results of the company cash flow hedging activities. the company utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. during 2005, 2004 and 2003, the company commodity price hedges decreased oil and gas revenues from continuing operations by $420.4 million, $211.9 million and $110.7 million, respectively. the effective portions of changes in the fair values of the 41 table of contents company commodity price hedges are deferred as increases or decreases to stockholders equity until the underlying hedged transaction occurs. consequently, changes in the effective portions of commodity price hedges add volatility to the company reported stockholders equity until the hedge derivative matures or is terminated. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional disclosures about the company commodity related derivative financial instruments. subsequent to december 31, 2005, the company reduced its oil and gas hedge positions by terminating the following swap and collar contracts: (i) 2,000 bpd of march through december 2006 oil swap contracts with a fixed price of $26.29 per bbl; 1,000 bpd of calendar 2007 oil swap contracts with a fixed price of $31.00 per bbl; 2,000 bpd of calendar 2008 oil swap contracts with a fixed price of $30.00 per bbl; 2,000 bpd of march through december 2006 oil collar contracts having a floor price of $50.00 per bbl and a ceiling price of $96.25 per bbl; 2,500 bpd of calendar 2007 oil collar contracts having a floor price of $50.00 and a ceiling price of $91.18 per bbl and (ii) 65,000 mmbtu per day of april through december 2006 gas collar contracts with a weighted average floor price per mmbtu of $6.74 and a weighted average ceiling price per mmbtu of $14.01. the aggregate value of the terminated oil and gas hedge contracts was a liability of $59.4 million on the dates of termination. argentina commodity prices. during 2002, the argentine government implemented a 20 percent tax on oil exports. in 2003, the company exported approximately five percent of its argentine oil production. associated therewith, the company incurred oil export taxes of $1.2 million for 2003. during 2004 and 2005, the company did not export any of its argentine oil production. the export tax has also had the effect of decreasing internal argentine oil revenues (not only export revenues) by the taxes levied. the u.s. dollar equivalent value for domestic argentine oil sales (now paid in pesos) has generally moved toward parity with the u.s. dollar-denominated export values, net of the export tax. the adverse impact of this tax has been partially offset by the net cost savings resulting from the devaluation of the peso on peso-denominated costs. in january 2003, at the argentine government request, oil producers and refiners agreed to cap amounts payable for certain domestic sales at $28.50 per bbl, which remained in effect through april 2004. the producers and refiners further agreed that the difference between the actual price and the capped price would be payable once actual prices fall below the $28.50 cap. subsequently the terms were modified such that while the $28.50 per bbl payable cap was in place, the refiners would have no obligation to pay producers for sales values that exceeded $36.00 per bbl. initially, the refiners and producers also agreed to discount u.s. dollar-denominated oil prices at 90 percent prior to converting to pesos at the current exchange rate for the purpose of invoicing and settling oil sales to argentine refiners. in may 2004, refiners and producers changed the discount percentage from 90 percent for all price levels to 86 percent if west texas intermediate ( wti ) was equal to or less than $36 per bbl and 80 percent if wti exceeded $36 per bbl. all the oil prices are adjusted for normal quality differentials prior to applying the discount. in 2004, it appeared probable that the price of world oil would remain above the $28.50 cap for the foreseeable future. given the uncertainty surrounding the timing of when argentine producers could expect to collect balances outstanding from refiners, the company ceased recognizing revenue and began recording any excess between the actual sales price pursuant to its oil sales contracts with argentine refiners that were subject to the price stabilization agreement and the $28.50 price cap as deferred revenue in the balance sheet. the decision by argentine oil producers and refiners to not renew the price stability agreement beyond april 30, 2004 does not terminate the obligation of refiners to reimburse producers for balances that accumulated from january 2003 through april 2004, if and when the price of wti falls below $28.50. in may 2004, the argentine government increased the export tax from 20 percent to 25 percent. this tax is applied on the sales value after the tax, thus, the net effect of the 20 percent and 25 percent rates is 16.7 percent and 20 percent, respectively. in august 2004, the argentine government further increased the export tax rates for oil exports. the export tax now escalates from the current 25 percent (20 percent effective rate) to a maximum rate of 45 percent (31 percent effective rate) of the realized value for exported bbls as wti prices per bbl increase from 42 table of contents less than $32.00 to $45.00 and above. the export tax is not deducted in the calculation of royalty payments and expires in february 2007. given the number of governmental changes during 2005 affecting the realized price the company receives for its oil sales, no specific predictions can be made about the future of oil prices in argentina. however, in the short term, the company expects argentine oil realizations to be less than oil realizations in the united states. as a result of the economic emergency law enacted by the argentine government in january 2002, the company gas prices, expressed in u.s. dollars, have also fallen in proportion to the devaluation of the argentine peso since the end of 2001 due to the pesofication of contracts and freezing of gas prices at the wellhead required by that law. as a baseline, the company 2001 realized argentine gas price was $1.31 per mcf as compared to $.88, $.66 and $.56 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the unfavorable gas price has acted to discourage gas development activities and increased gas demand. without development of gas reserves in argentina, supplies of gas in the country have declined, while demand for gas has been increasing due to the resurgence of the argentine economy and the higher cost of alternative fuels. briefly during 2004, gas exports to chile were curtailed at the direction of the argentine government. argentina has also entered into an agreement to import gas from bolivia at prices starting at approximately $2.00 per mcf (at the border), including transportation costs. in may 2004, pursuant to a decree, the argentine government approved measures to permit producers to renegotiate gas sales contracts, excluding those that could affect small residential customers, in accordance with scheduled price increases specified in the decree. the wellhead prices in the decree increased from a 2004 range of $.61 to $.78 per mcf to a range of $.87 to $1.04 per mcf after july 1, 2005, depending on the region where the gas is produced. no further gas price increases beyond july 2005 have occurred. other than an expectation that gas prices will be permitted to increase gradually over time, as has already been demonstrated by the governing authorities, no specific predictions can be made about the future of gas prices in argentina. however, the company expects argentine gas realizations to be less than gas realizations in the united states. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for further discussion of commodity prices in argentina. interest and other income. the company recorded interest and other income totaling $97.1 million, $14.1 million and $12.3 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the increase in interest and other income during 2005, as compared to 2004, is primarily attributable to the recognition of $73.6 million in business interruption insurance claims, of which $59.4 million relates to hurricane ivan and $14.2 million to the fain plant fire. see note m of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. although certain derivative contracts to which the company has been a party to did not qualify as hedges, the company does not enter into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes. the fair value of the company derivative contracts are determined based on counterparties estimates and valuation models. the company did not change its valuation method during 2005. during 2005, the company was a party to commodity, interest rate and foreign exchange rate swap contracts and commodity collar contracts. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included inquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk... 36 quantitative disclosures..................................... 36 qualitative disclosures...................................... 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information concerning the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2002, 2001 and 2000 from the company's commodity hedging activities and the company's open commodity hedge positions at december 31, 2002. competition, markets and regulation competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior return on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, investigate and purchase such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop them. many of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect oil and gas prices or the degree to which oil and gas prices will be affected, the prices for any oil or gas that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region. governmental regulation. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the united states securities and exchange commission. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that will ensure that material information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known to the company's management and that the financial statements and other financial information included in this report do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact, or omit to state a material fact, necessary to make the statements made in this report not misleading. oil and gas exploration and production operations are also subject to various types of regulation by local, state, federal and foreign agencies. additionally, the company's operations are subject to state conservation laws and regulations, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. states and foreign governments generally impose a production or severance tax with respect to 9 production and sale of oil and gas within their respective jurisdictions. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the company's cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by congress, the federal energy regulatory commission, state regulatory bodies, the courts and foreign governments. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on the company's operations. environmental and health controls. the company's operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental and health protection. these laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from oil and gas operations. these laws and regulations may also restrict air emissions or other discharges resulting from the operation of natural gas processing plants, pipeline systems and other facilities that the company owns. although the company believes that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition, risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in oil and gas operations, and there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities, including potential criminal penalties, will not be incurred. moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or persons resulting from the company's operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the "superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons with respect to the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under cercla may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company generates wastes, including hazardous wastes, that are subject to the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes. the united states environmental protection agency and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. furthermore, certain wastes generated by the company's oil and gas operations that are currently exempt from treatment as hazardous wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes, and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly operating and disposal requirements. the company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas. although the company has used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under the company's control. these properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination or to perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. federal regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that store or otherwise handle oil, such as the company, to prepare and implement spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. the oil pollution prevention act of 1990 ("opa") amends certain provisions of the federal water pollution control act of 1972, commonly referred to as the clean water act ("cwa"), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and response to oil spills into navigable waters. the opa subjects owners of facilities to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and 10 certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. the cwa provides penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable quantities and imposes substantial liability for the costs of removing a spill. opa requires responsible parties to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover removal costs and damages resulting from an oil spill. opa calls for a financial responsibility of $35 million to cover pollution cleanup for offshore facilities. state laws for the control of water pollution also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground. the company does not believe that the opa, cwa or related state laws are any more burdensome to it than they are to other similarly situated oil and gas companies. many states in which the company operates have recently begun to regulate naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm") and norm wastes that are generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production activities. norm wastes typically consist of very low-level radioactive substances that become concentrated in pipe scale and in production equipment. state regulations may require the testing of pipes and production equipment for the presence of norm, the licensing of norm-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and disposal of norm wastes. the company believes that the growing regulation of norm will have a minimal effect on the company's operations because the company generates only a very small quantity of norm on an annual basis. the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not, in the future, result in a curtailment of production or processing or a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing or otherwise adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company employs an environmental manager and environmental specialists charged with monitoring environmental and regulatory compliance. the company performs an environmental review as part of the due diligence work on potential acquisitions, including acquisitions of oil and gas properties. the company is not aware of any material environmental legal proceedings pending against it or any material environmental liabilities to which it may be subject. risks associated with business activities the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. commodity prices. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on prices of oil and gas, which are affected by numerous factors beyond the company's control. oil and gas prices historically have been very volatile. a significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties and an increase in the company's deferred tax asset valuation allowance. drilling activities. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. because of the percentage of the company's capital budget devoted to higher risk exploratory projects, it is likely that the company will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense. unproved properties. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company carried unproved property costs of $219.1 million and $187.8 million, respectively. united states generally accepted accounting principles require periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated value. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or 11 expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. acquisitions. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a key element of the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas properties on a profitable basis. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and to assess possible environmental liabilities. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. divestitures. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying non-strategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of non-strategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the non-strategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. operation of natural gas processing plants. as of december 31, 2002, the company owns interests in 11 natural gas processing plants and five treating facilities. the company operates seven of the plants and all five treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of natural gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a natural gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. operating hazards and uninsured losses. the company's operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions and pollution and other environmental damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. although the company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs associated with obtaining such insurance. environmental. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of toxic substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to penalties, damages or other liabilities, and compliance may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulation - environmental and health controls". the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing or a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing or otherwise adversely affect the company's operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. debt restrictions and availability. the company is a borrower under fixed term senior notes and a corporate credit facility. the terms of the company's borrowings under the senior notes and the corporate credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices, interest rates and competition for available debt financing. see note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for disclosures about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. first quarter 2003. based on current estimates, the company expects that its first quarter worldwide production will average 120 to 128 mboe per day. included in the mid-point of the estimate is 95 mmcf per day, net to the company from canyon express. first quarter production costs are expected to average $5.10 to $5.40 per boe based on recent nymex strip prices for oil and gas. depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $5.75 to $6.00 per boe, and total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $20 million to $50 million. general and administrative expense is expected to be $16 million to $17 million during the first quarter of 2003, $2 million to $3 million of which relates to estimated additional performance-based compensation costs. interest expense is expected to be $24 million to $26 million. interest capitalized during the first quarter of 2003 will be significantly less than interest capitalized during the first three quarters of 2002 as the company's largest capital project for which interest was being capitalized, the canyon express development project, was put into production during september 2002. additionally, during february 2003, the company entered into interest rate swap contracts to hedge a portion of the fair value of its 9-5/8 percent senior notes. under the terms of the interest rate swap contracts, the company will receive a fixed annual rate of 9-5/8 percent on $250 million notional amount and will pay the counterparties a variable rate on the notional amount equal to the six-month libor, reset semi-annually, plus a weighted average margin of 566.4 basis points. income taxes, principally in argentina, are expected to be approximately $2 million as the company benefits from the carryforward of net operating losses in the united states and canada. production growth. the company expects that its annual 2003 worldwide production will be approximately 165 mboe per day, an increase of 45 percent over 2002 levels. the growth in production during 2003 includes initial production during the second quarter from the company's deepwater gulf of mexico falcon gas project and the sable oil project in south africa, coupled with peak rates of production from canyon express and increases in production from the company's core properties in the united states, argentina and canada due to an aggressive development drilling program with approximately twice as many wells anticipated in 2003 versus 2002. capital expenditures. during 2003, the company's budget for oil and gas producing activities is expected to range from $450 million to $550 million, of which approximately 35 percent has been budgeted for exploration expenditures and 65 percent has been budgeted for development drilling and facility costs. the company's 2003 capital budget is allocated approximately 60 percent to the 25 united states, nine percent to argentina and canada and 22 percent to africa. the company's 2003 capital budget includes $35 million of remaining development capital to complete the falcon and devils tower development projects in the deepwater gulf of mexico and the sable oil project offshore south africa. aggressive development drilling programs in the company's core spraberry oil field, hugoton and west panhandle gas fields, the united states gulf coast, argentina and canada will resume with approximately twice as many wells anticipated in 2003 versus 2002. during 2003, the company has planned exploration drilling in the gulf of mexico, the onshore gulf coast area, alaska, canada, gabon, tunisia and south africa. during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2005, the company expects to expend approximately $172 million and $151 million, respectively, of capital for development drilling and facility costs related to its proved undeveloped reserves. critical accounting estimates the company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in this report in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). see note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional disclosure about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. interest and other revenue. the company recorded interest and other income totaling $11.2 million, $21.8 million and $25.8 during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. the company's interest and other income was comprised of revenue that was not directly attributable to oil and gas producing activities or oil and gas property divestitures. see note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk". see note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for more information about the company's interest rate hedging activities. as is further described in "results of operations" above, during the year ended december 31, 2002, the company repurchased $47.1 million of its 9-5/8 percent senior notes, $13.9 million of its 8-7/8 percent senior notes and repaid a $45.2 million west panhandle gas field capital cost obligation. additionally, during the year ended december 31, 2001, the company redeemed its remaining 11-5/8 percent and 10-5/8 percent senior subordinated notes and $38.7 million of its 9-5/8 percent senior notes. at december 31, 2002, the company had a $575.0 million corporate credit facility with a syndicate of banks that matures on march 1, 2005. outstanding borrowings under the corporate credit facility totaled $260.0 million as of december 31, 2002. in addition, the company has five outstanding senior note issuances at december 31, 2002. such debt issuances consist of (i) $136.1 million aggregate principal amount of 8-7/8 percent senior notes due in 2005; (ii) $150 million aggregate principal amount of 8-1/4 percent senior notes due in 2007; (iii) $350 million aggregate principal amount of 6-1/2 percent senior notes due in 2008; (iv) $339.2 million aggregate remaining principal amount of 9-5/8 percent senior notes due in 2010; (v) $150 million aggregate principal amount of 7-1/2 percent senior notes due in 2012; and (vi) $250 million aggregate principal amount of 7-1/5 percent senior notes due in 2028. certain of the obligations above contain restrictive covenants, each of which the company is in compliance. the weighted average interest rate on the company's indebtedness for the year ended december 31, 2002 was 5.74 percent as compared to 7.52 percent for the year ended december 31, 2001 and 8.68 percent for the year ended december 31, 2000, taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps. see note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. although certain derivative contracts that the company is a party to do not qualify as hedges, the company does not enter into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes. the fair value of the company's derivative contracts are determined based on counterparties' estimates and valuation models. the company has not changed its valuation method during 2002. during 2002, the company was a party to forward foreign exchange contracts, commodity and interest rate swap contracts and commodity collar contracts. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk................................................. 40 quantitative disclosures.................................... 40 qualitative disclosures..................................... 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for disclosures about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. 27 capital expenditures. during 2004, the company's budget for oil and gas capital activities is expected to range from $550 million to $600 million, of which approximately 65 percent has been budgeted for development drilling and facility costs and 35 percent for exploration expenditures. the company's 2004 capital budget is allocated approximately 70 percent to the united states, 19 percent to argentina and the remaining 11 percent is budgeted for expenditures in canada, gabon, tunisia, south africa and other foreign areas. pioneer expects to drill approximately 400 exploration and development wells during 2004. during 2004 and 2005, the company expects to expend approximately $219 million and $348 million, respectively, of capital for development drilling and facility costs related to its proved undeveloped reserves. production growth. the company expects that its annual 2004 worldwide production will range from 65 mmboe to 73 mmboe, or approximately 178 mboe to 200 mboe per day, an increase of 15 percent to 29 percent over 2003 levels. the bottom end of the range includes a full year of production from the company's deepwater gulf of mexico falcon and harrier gas fields, the sable oil field in south africa and the hawa field in tunisia, coupled with increases in production from the company's 2004 capital program and the inherent variability in production results. the company expects, based on quoted futures prices, to generate cash flow significantly in excess of its capital program and has considered the potential to invest a portion of the excess cash for additional development drilling or core area acquisitions in arriving at the top end of the 2004 production range. the outlook for continued production growth in 2005 is strong considering that first production from several new projects is not expected until well into 2004. the company will have its first full year of production from the devils tower, tomahawk and raptor deepwater fields during 2005, and the company believes it has sufficient development inventory to support production growth in the united states, argentina, canada and tunisia. as a result, pioneer currently expects production in 2005 to match 2004 at a minimum, with considerable upside given the potential investment of excess cash flow to develop new exploration successes and/or acquire additional assets in core areas during 2004 and 2005. longer term, with several discoveries to develop for 2006 and beyond, a pipeline of exploration opportunities, potential for continued core area acquisitions, continuing strong commodity prices and significant excess cash flow, pioneer has targeted five-year average compounded annual production growth of ten percent. costs and expenses. the company expects that its costs and expenses that are highly correlated with production volumes, such as production costs and depletion expense, will increase in absolute amounts during 2004. additionally, the company expects that depletion expense will increase on a per boe basis during 2004 as compared to 2003 due to new production from harrier, tomahawk, raptor and devils tower fields in the deepwater gulf of mexico and increased production from the sable oil field offshore south africa. the per boe cost bases of these fields are higher than that of pioneer's average producing property in 2003. additionally, the average per boe lifting costs of devils tower and sable oil field production are expected to exceed the company's average 2003 per boe lifting costs. the company expects average per boe production taxes to decline during 2004 as compared to 2003 as the production from the aforementioned properties are not burdened by such taxes. ad valorem taxes are highly correlated with prior year commodity prices. as a consequence of increases in oil, ngl and gas prices during 2003, ad valorem taxes are expected to be higher in 2004, as compared to 2003. the company anticipates an increase in general and administrative expenses during 2004 due to additional staffing and the amortization of restricted stock that is being awarded to officers and employees in lieu of stock options, which were awarded in prior years. capital allocation. four years ago, the company made a commitment to move its financial position to investment grade standards, and significant improvement has been accomplished during that period with year-end 2003 debt to book capitalization reaching 46.9 percent as compared to 69.3 percent at the end of 1999. the company has established a targeted range for debt to book capitalization of 37 percent to 43 percent. given the expanding financial strength of the company and expectations for significant cash flow in excess of its capital budget, the company expects to use a portion of its excess cash flow in 2004 to further reduce long-term debt by a minimum of $100 million. additionally, the company' board of directors have approved a plan to begin a dividend program of $.20 per common share, payable in two semi-annual installments of $.10 per common share, beginning in 2004. 28 during 2004 through 2006, the company anticipates, based upon year-end futures prices, that it will have significant excess cash flow even after funding its typical annual capital budgets, planned dividends and achieving its leverage targets. the company considers it a high priority to utilize a portion of the excess cash flow to fund the development of new exploration successes and to selectively acquire additional assets in its core areas. the company will also consider using a portion of the excess cash flow for share repurchases. first quarter 2004. based on current estimates, the company expects that its first quarter 2004 production will average 168,000 to 183,000 boes per day, reflecting the incremental production from harrier which began producing in january, the variability of oil cargo shipments in tunisia and south africa and the seasonal decline in gas demand during argentina's summer season. first quarter production costs are expected to average $5.00 to $5.50 per boe based on current nymex strip prices for oil and gas. deprecation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $7.75 to $8.25 per boe as a greater proportion of the company's production is being produced from higher-cost basis deepwater gulf of mexico and south africa properties. total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $25 million to $85 million. the first quarter range includes a number of high-impact deepwater gulf of mexico wells that are in progress, up to five wells expected in gabon to further refine development plans and test a new exploration target, increased exploration drilling in argentina and the winter drilling program in canada. general and administrative expense is expected to be $17 million to $20 million, $2 million to $3 million of which relates to estimated performance- based compensation costs. interest expense is expected to be $21 million to $23 million and accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be approximately $2 million. the company recognizes deferred income taxes reflecting its tax position in each of its areas of operation. however, cash income taxes are expected to be only $3 million to $5 million, principally related to argentine income taxes and nominal alternative minimum tax in the united states. other than in argentina, the company continues to benefit from the carryforward of net operating losses and other positive tax attributes. critical accounting estimates the company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in this report in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). see note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional disclosure about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. interest and other income. the company recorded interest and other income totaling $12.3 million, $11.2 million and $21.8 during the years ended december 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. the company's interest and other income was comprised of revenue that was not directly attributable to oil and gas producing activities or oil and gas property divestitures. see note m of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a table of changes in the fair value of the company's derivative contract assets and liabilities during the year ended december 31, 2003 and note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for more information about the company's debt instruments and interest rate hedging activities. the company's future debt level is dependent primarily on net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from financing activities and proceeds generated from asset dispositions. the company believes it has substantial borrowing capacity to meet any unanticipated cash requirements, and during low commodity price periods, the company has the flexibility to increase borrowings and/or modify its capital spending to meet its contractual obligations and maintain its debt ratings. as the company pursues its strategy, it may utilize various financing sources, including fixed and floating rate debt, convertible securities, preferred stock or common stock. the company may also issue securities in exchange for oil and gas properties, stock or other interests in other oil and gas companies or related assets. additional securities may be of a class preferred to common stock with respect to such matters as dividends and liquidation rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined by the company's board of directors. liquidity. the company's principal source of short-term liquidity is its revolving credit facility. during december 2003, the company entered into a new five-year revolving credit agreement (the "new credit facility") that matures in december 2008. the new credit facility replaced the company's $575 million revolving credit facility (the "prior credit facility") that had a scheduled maturity in march 2005. the terms of the new credit facility provide for initial aggregate loan commitments of $700 million from a syndication of participating banks (the "lenders"). aggregate loan commitments under the new credit facility may be increased to a maximum aggregate amount of $1 billion if the lenders increase their loan commitments or loan commitments of new financial institutions are added to the new credit facility. outstanding borrowings under the new credit facility totaled $160 million as of december 31, 2003. including $28.8 million of undrawn and outstanding letters of credit under the new credit facility, the company has $511.2 million of unused borrowing capacity as of december 31, 2003. book capitalization and current ratio. the company's book capitalization at december 31, 2003 was $3.3 billion, consisting of debt of $1.6 billion and stockholders' equity of $1.7 billion. the company's debt to book capitalization was 46.9 percent at december 31, 2003 as compared to 54.8 percent at december 31, 2002. the company's ratio of current assets to current liabilities was .48 at december 31, 2003 and .54 at december 31, 2002. the decline in the company's ratio of current assets to current liabilities was primarily due to increases in current hedge derivative obligations and trade payables. as more fully discussed in "2004 outlook" above, the company has targeted a range for debt to book capitalization of between 37 percent and 43 percent. 39 new accounting development in its recent review of registrants' filings, the staff of the sec has taken the position that statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets" ("sfas 142"), requires oil and gas entities to separately report on their balance sheets the costs of leasehold mineral interests, including related accumulated depletion, as intangible assets and provide related disclosures. the company has historically included producing leasehold costs in the proved properties caption on its balance sheet since the value of the leases is inseparable from the value of the related oil and gas reserves. this classification is consistent with the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. 19, "financial accounting and reporting by oil and gas producing companies", and standard industry practice. almost all costs included in the unproved properties caption on the balance sheet are leasehold mineral interests that are regularly evaluated for impairment based on lease term and drilling activity. the sec staff has referred the question of sfas 142 applicability for consideration by the emerging issues task force. if the provisions of sfas 142 are determined to be applicable to oil and gas leasehold mineral interests, reclassifications within property, plant and equipment on the consolidated balance sheets and additional disclosures may be required. as of december 31, 2003, the company has not determined the amount of such reclassifications, if applicable. the company does not believe that the provisions of sfas 142, if determined to be applicable, will have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. although certain derivative contracts that the company is a party to do not qualify as hedges, the company does not enter into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes. the fair value of the company's derivative contracts are determined based on counterparties' estimates and valuation models. the company did not change its valuation method during the year ended december 31, 2003. during 2003, the company was a party to forward foreign exchange contracts, commodity and interest rate swap contracts and commodity collar contracts. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk............................................... 47 quantitative disclosures.................................. 48 qualitative disclosures................................... 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note k of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 from the company's hedging activities and the company's open hedge positions at december 31, 2004. the company. the company's asset base is anchored by the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the hugoton gas field located in southwest kansas, the raton gas field located in southern colorado and the west panhandle gas field located in the texas panhandle. complementing these areas, the company has exploration and development opportunities and/or oil and gas production activities in the gulf of mexico, the onshore gulf coast area and in alaska, and internationally in argentina, canada, equatorial guinea, gabon, south africa and tunisia. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, ngls and gas, and that are also well balanced between long-lived, dependable production and exploration and development opportunities. additionally, the company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, financial and management support to united states and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce oil, ngl and gas reserves. production operations are principally located domestically in texas, kansas, colorado, louisiana and the gulf of mexico, and internationally in argentina, canada, south africa and tunisia. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. during the 6 year ended december 31, 2004, the company's average daily production, on a boe basis, increased as a result of (i) gas production beginning in january 2004 from the company's harrier gas field in the deepwater gulf of mexico, (ii) oil production beginning in may 2004 from the company's devils tower oil field in the deepwater gulf of mexico, (iii) gas production beginning in june 2004 from the company's raptor and tomahawk gas fields in the deepwater gulf of mexico, (iv) a full year of gas production from the company's falcon field in the deepwater gulf of mexico, (v) a full year of oil production from the company's adam field in tunisia, (vi) a full year of oil production from the company's sable field offshore south africa, (vii) increased production from argentina and (viii) fourth quarter production from the properties added in the evergreen merger. these increases more than offset normal production declines. during the year ended december 31, 2003, the company's average daily oil, ngl and gas production increased as a result of (i) a full year of gas production from the company's canyon express gas project in the deepwater gulf of mexico, (ii) gas production beginning in march 2003 from the company's falcon gas field in the deepwater gulf of mexico, (iii) increased production from argentina primarily resulting from the resumption of oil drilling activities in the third quarter of 2002, (iv) oil production beginning in may 2003 from the company's adam field in tunisia and (v) oil production beginning in august 2003 from the company's sable field offshore south africa. these increases more than offset normal production declines. during 2002, the company's average daily oil, ngl and gas production decreased primarily due to normal production declines, reduced argentine demand for gas, the company's curtailment of argentine drilling activities during the first half of 2002 and the december 2001 sale of the company's rycroft/spirit river field in canada. production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for each of the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 is set forth under "item 2. properties - selected oil and gas information - production, price and cost data". drilling activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through exploratory and development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2004, the company drilled 1,035 gross (876.8 net) wells, 87 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $1.6 billion. during 2004, the company drilled 423 gross (384.8 net) wells. the company's current 2005 capital expenditure budget is expected to range from $900 million to $950 million. the company has allocated the budgeted 2005 capital expenditures as follows: approximately 75 percent to development drilling and facility activities and the balance of approximately 25 percent to exploration activities. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2004 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 161.1 mmboe of oil and ngls and 1,356.6 bcf of gas. development of these proved reserves will require future capital expenditures. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price environment, the company's expected operating cash flows and the company's financial condition. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves and unproved prospects provides attractive development and exploration opportunities for at least the next three to five years. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled exploration staff as well as acquiring and drilling a portfolio of exploration opportunities. the company's commitment to exploration has resulted in significant discoveries, such as the 1998 sable oil field discovery in south africa; the 1999 aconcagua, 2000 devils tower, 2001 falcon and 2003 harrier, tomahawk and raptor discoveries in the deepwater gulf of mexico; and the 2002 borj el khadra permit discovery in the ghadames basin onshore southern tunisia. the company currently anticipates that its 2005 exploration efforts will be approximately 25 percent of total 2005 capital expenditures and will be concentrated domestically in the gulf of mexico and alaska, and internationally in africa, argentina and canada. exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1. business - risks associated with business activities - drilling activities" below. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. during the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the company expended $2.6 billion (including $2.5 billion associated with the evergreen merger), $151.0 million and $195.5 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas 7 properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of argentine foreign currency, operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during the year ended december 31, 2004, the company's primary purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were williams power company, inc. (12 percent), occidental energy marketing, inc. (six percent), conocophillips (six percent), enterprise products operating l.p. (five percent) and plains marketing lp (four percent). the company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. hedging activities. the company utilizes commodity derivative contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting 8 and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's hedging activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note k of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information concerning the impact on oil and gas revenues during the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 from the company's commodity hedging activities and the company's open commodity hedge positions at december 31, 2004. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, investigate and purchase such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. many of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. governmental regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that will ensure that material information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known to the company's management and that the financial statements and other financial information included in this report do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact, or omit to state a material fact, necessary to make the statements made in this report not misleading. oil and gas exploration and production operations are also subject to various types of regulation by local, state, federal and foreign agencies. additionally, the company's operations are subject to state conservation laws and regulations, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. states and foreign governments generally impose a production or severance tax with respect to production and sale of oil and gas within their respective jurisdictions. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the company's cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by congress, the federal energy regulatory commission, state regulatory bodies, the courts and foreign governments. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on the company's operations. environmental and health controls. the company's operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental and health protection. these laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from oil and gas operations. these laws and regulations may also restrict air emissions or other discharges resulting from the operation of gas processing plants, pipeline systems and other facilities that the company owns. although the company believes that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its future results of operations or financial condition, risks of substantial costs and liabilities 9 are inherent in oil and gas operations, and there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities, including potential criminal penalties, will not be incurred. moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or persons resulting from the company's operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the "superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons with respect to the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under cercla may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company generates wastes, including hazardous wastes, that are subject to the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes. the united states environmental protection agency and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. furthermore, certain wastes generated by the company's oil and gas operations that are currently exempt from treatment as hazardous wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes, and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly operating and disposal requirements. the company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas reserves. although the company has used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under the company's control. these properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state and foreign laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination or to perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. federal regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that store or otherwise handle oil, such as the company, to prepare and implement spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. the oil pollution act of 1990 ("opa") amends certain provisions of the federal water pollution control act of 1972, commonly referred to as the clean water act ("cwa"), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and response to oil spills into navigable waters. the opa subjects owners of facilities to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. the cwa provides penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable quantities and imposes substantial liability for the costs of removing a spill. opa requires responsible parties to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover removal costs and damages resulting from an oil spill. opa calls for a financial responsibility of $35 million to cover pollution cleanup for offshore facilities. state laws for the control of water pollution also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground. the company does not believe that the opa, cwa or related state laws are any more burdensome to it than they are to other similarly situated oil and gas companies. many states in which the company operates regulate naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm") and norm wastes that are generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production activities. norm wastes typically consist of very low-level radioactive substances that become concentrated in pipe scale and in production equipment. certain state regulations require the testing of pipes and production equipment for the presence of norm, the licensing of norm-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and disposal of norm wastes. the regulation of norm has minimal effect on the company's operations because the company generates only small quantities of norm on an annual basis. 10 the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing, a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing or otherwise adversely affect the company's future results of operations and financial condition. the company employs an environmental director, regulatory manager and regulatory and environmental specialists charged with monitoring environmental and regulatory compliance. the company performs an environmental review as part of the due diligence work on potential acquisitions. the company is not aware of any material environmental legal proceedings pending against it or any material environmental liabilities to which it may be subject. risks associated with business activities the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. commodity prices. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on oil and gas prices, which are affected by numerous factors beyond the company's control. oil and gas prices historically have been very volatile. a significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties and goodwill and the recognition of deferred tax asset valuation allowances or an increase to the company's deferred tax asset valuation allowances, depending on the company's tax attributes in each country in which it has activities. drilling activities. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. because of the percentage of the company's capital budget devoted to higher risk exploratory projects, it is likely that the company will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense. unproved properties. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, the company carried unproved property costs of $470.4 million and $179.8 million, respectively. generally accepted accounting principles require periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. acquisitions. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a key element of the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and to assess possible environmental liabilities. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. divestitures. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying non-strategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially 11 affect the ability of the company to dispose of non-strategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the non-strategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. operation of natural gas processing plants. as of december 31, 2004, the company owned interests in 11 natural gas processing plants and five treating facilities. the company operates seven of the plants and all five treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of natural gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. operating hazards and uninsured losses. the company's operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, adverse weather effects and pollution and other environmental damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. although the company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs associated with obtaining such insurance. environmental. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of toxic substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to penalties, damages or other liabilities, and compliance may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations - environmental and health controls" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing, a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing or otherwise adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. debt restrictions and availability. the company is a borrower under fixed term senior notes and variable rate credit facilities. the terms of the company's borrowings under the senior notes and the credit facilities specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices, interest rates and competition for available debt financing. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for disclosures about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. capital expenditures. during 2005, the company's budget for oil and gas capital activities is expected to range from $900 million to $950 million, of which approximately 75 percent has been budgeted for lower-risk development and extension drilling and facility costs and 25 percent for exploration expenditures. the company's 2005 capital budget is allocated approximately 75 percent to the united states, 15 percent to argentina and five percent to each of africa and canada. pioneer expects to drill approximately 800 exploration and development wells during 2005. during 2005 and 2006, the company expects to expend approximately $394 million and $348 million, respectively, of capital for development drilling and facility costs related to its proved undeveloped reserves. production growth. the company expects that its annual 2005 worldwide production will range from 70 mmboe to 74 mmboe, or approximately 192 mboe to 203 mboe per day. the forecasted range includes a full year of production from the assets acquired in the evergreen merger and has been reduced by the vpp volumes sold during january 2005. the company expects, based on quoted futures prices, to generate cash flow significantly in excess of its capital program which will further enhance the company's financial flexibility to fund the development of future exploration successes, core area acquisitions and additional development drilling. with several discoveries in various stages of commercialization, a pipeline of exploration opportunities, the potential for continued core area acquisitions, continuing strong commodity prices and significant excess cash flow, pioneer has targeted five-year average compounded annual production growth of eight percent to nine percent or ten percent per share, giving consideration to contemplated share repurchases. 31 costs and expenses. the company expects that its costs and expenses that are highly correlated with production volumes, such as production costs and depletion expense, will increase in absolute amounts during 2005 and that production costs, depreciation, depletion and amortization expense and other costs and expenses will increase on a per boe basis as a result of the sale of proved reserves through the vpps. additionally, the company expects that depletion expense will increase on a per boe basis during 2005 as compared to 2004 due to increased production from the devils tower oil field in the deepwater gulf of mexico and the assets acquired in the evergreen merger. the per boe cost basis of these fields is higher than that of pioneer's average producing property in 2004. ad valorem taxes are highly correlated with prior year commodity prices. as a consequence of increases in oil, ngl and gas prices during 2004, ad valorem taxes are expected to be higher in 2005, as compared to 2004. the company also anticipates an increase in general and administrative expenses during 2005 due to additional staffing associated with the evergreen merger and anticipated company growth, as well as the amortization of deferred compensation associated with unvested restricted stock and stock options. capital allocation. during 2004, the company improved its financial position and achieved investment grade standards. the company is now targeting mid-investment grade ratings. towards that end, the company established a targeted range for debt to book capitalization of less than 35 percent by the end of 2005, as further discussed later. during 2004, the company paid dividends of $.20 per common share in two semiannual installments of $.10 per common share, and the company currently expects to, as a minimum, maintain this level of dividends in 2005. during 2005 through 2007, the company anticipates, based upon year-end futures prices, that it will have significant excess cash flow after funding its typical annual capital budgets, planned dividends and achieving its leverage targets. the company considers it a high priority to utilize a portion of the excess cash flow to fund the development of new exploration successes and to selectively acquire additional assets in its core areas. the company will also use a portion of the excess cash flow for share repurchases, pursuant to the recently approved $300 million stock repurchase program. first quarter 2005. based on current estimates, the company expects that first quarter 2005 production will average 175,000 to 190,000 boe per day. this range is lower than the fourth quarter average reflecting the vpp volumes sold, more days of downtime and a gradual ramp up of production for the canyon express system which has been undergoing repairs, the timing of oil cargo shipments in tunisia and south africa which were high during the fourth quarter, and the typical seasonal decline in gas demand during argentina's summer season. first quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes) are expected to average $6.00 to $6.50 per boe based on current nymex strip prices for oil and gas. the increase over the prior quarter is a result of the retention of operating costs related to the vpp volumes sold, an increase in production and ad valorem taxes and additional workovers planned during the canadian winter access season. production costs are expected to decline in the second quarter of 2005 as lower-cost volumes resume from the deepwater gulf of mexico and workovers return to more normal levels. depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $8.75 to $9.25 per boe. total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $80 million to $110 million. several higher-risk exploration wells and significant seismic investments are planned during the first quarter, serving to front-end load the company's 2005 exploration program. specifically, first quarter exploration activity is expected to include an appraisal well to the 2004 thunder hawk discovery and an exploration well on a falcon corridor satellite prospect in the deepwater gulf of mexico. in alaska, as many as three wells are expected to test new exploration targets and pioneer plans to shoot seismic over newly acquired acreage. one well is planned in west africa and lower-risk exploration and geologic and geophysical work will also continue in argentina, canada and tunisia. general and administrative expense is expected to be $24 million to $26 million. interest expense is expected to be $33 million to $36 million, and accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be approximately $2 million to $3 million. the company's effective income tax rate is expected to range from 36 percent to 39 percent based on current capital spending plans, including cash income taxes of $5 million to $10 million that are principally related to argentine and tunisian income taxes and nominal alternative minimum tax in the u.s. other than in argentina and tunisia, the company continues to benefit from the carryforward of net operating losses and other positive tax attributes. 32 debt reduction target. although the evergreen merger has resulted in an increase in the company's ratio of debt to book capitalization, the company has targeted a ratio of debt to book capitalization of less than 35 percent by the end of 2005. to achieve this target, the company plans to apply a portion of the proceeds from the 2005 vpps and the divestiture of certain canadian assets for expected proceeds of over $100 million to reduce debt. in addition, the company expects cash flows to be significantly in excess of the 2005 capital program based on current commodity prices which can be used to further reduce debt. field fuel reporting during the fourth quarter of 2004, the company completed a voluntary internal review of the various accounting treatments related to field fuel costs used by major oil companies and other independents in order to determine common industry practice. the review, in part, was undertaken in response to the large volume of field fuel usage related to the assets acquired from evergreen. field fuel is gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. pioneer has historically recorded the value of field fuel as an operating expense with an equal amount recorded as oil and gas revenues, with no net income effect. pioneer also reflected the volumes associated with field fuel in gas production. this practice has been routinely discussed by the company, especially in relation to the rising value of the fuel used in the field and its contribution to rising field operating expenses. although the company believes that its past treatment of field fuel was acceptable, the company changed its reporting of field fuel, no longer recording it as revenue or expense and not including it as production. pioneer believes this presentation is more common in the industry and will provide a better basis for comparing pioneer to other oil and gas companies. within this report, the company has adjusted its prior period revenues, production costs and sales volumes to reflect the new method of reporting field fuel. the change in reporting field fuel did not change reported net income of the periods presented since revenues and production costs were changed in equal amounts. critical accounting estimates the company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in this report in accordance with gaap. see note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for a description of the assumptions utilized in the preparation of these financial statements. deferred tax asset valuation allowances. the company continually assesses both positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that its deferred tax assets will be realized prior to their expiration. pioneer monitors company-specific, oil and gas industry and worldwide economic factors and reassesses the likelihood that the company's net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax attributes in each jurisdiction will be utilized prior to their expiration. there can be no assurances that facts and circumstances will not materially change and require the company to establish a united states deferred tax asset valuation allowance in a future period. as of december 31, 2004, the company does not believe there is sufficient positive evidence to reverse its valuation allowances related to foreign tax jurisdictions. goodwill impairment. the company will review its goodwill for impairment at least annually. this requires the company to estimate the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the reporting units that have goodwill. there is considerable judgment involved in estimating fair values, particularly proved reserve estimates as described above. litigation and environmental contingencies. the company makes judgments and estimates in recording liabilities for ongoing litigation and environmental remediation. actual costs can vary from such estimates for a variety of reasons. the costs to settle litigation can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations of laws and opinions and assessments on the amount of damages. similarly, environmental remediation liabilities are subject to change because of changes in laws, regulations, additional information obtained relating to the extent and nature of site contamination and improvements in technology. under gaap, a liability is recorded for these types of contingencies if the company determines the loss to be both probable and reasonably estimated. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional disclosures about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. 37 argentine commodity prices. during 2002, the argentine government implemented a 20 percent tax on oil exports. during 2002 and 2003, the company exported approximately 29 percent and five percent, respectively, of its argentine oil production. associated therewith, the company incurred oil export taxes of $2.2 million and $1.2 million for 2002 and 2003, respectively. during 2004, the company did not export any of its argentine oil production. the export tax has also had the effect of decreasing internal argentine oil revenues (not only export revenues) by the taxes levied. the u.s. dollar equivalent value for domestic argentine oil sales (now paid in pesos) has generally moved toward parity with the u.s. dollar-denominated export values, net of the export tax. the adverse impact of this tax has been partially offset by the net cost savings resulting from the devaluation of the peso on peso-denominated costs. in january 2003, at the argentine government's request, oil producers and refiners agreed to cap amounts payable for certain domestic sales at $28.50 per bbl which remained in effect through april 2004. the producers and refiners further agreed that the difference between the actual price and the capped price would be payable once actual prices fall below the $28.50 cap. subsequently the terms were modified such that while the $28.50 per bbl payable cap was in place, the refiners would have no obligation to pay producers for sales values that exceeded $36.00 per bbl. initially, the refiners and producers also agreed to discount u.s. dollar-denominated oil prices at 90 percent prior to converting to pesos at the current exchange rate for the purpose of invoicing and settling oil sales to argentine refiners. in may 2004, refiners and producers changed the discount percentage from 90 percent for all price levels to 86 percent if west texas intermediate ("wti") was equal to or less than $36 per bbl and 80 percent if wti exceeded $36 per bbl. all the oil prices are adjusted for normal quality differentials prior to applying the discount. in 2004, it appeared probable that the price of world oil would remain above the $28.50 cap for the foreseeable future. given the uncertainty surrounding the timing of when argentine producers could expect to collect balances outstanding from refiners, the company ceased recognizing revenue and began recording any excess between the actual sales price pursuant to its oil sales contracts with argentine refiners that were subject to the price stabilization agreement and the $28.50 price cap as deferred revenue in the balance sheet. at december 31, 2004, the company had $5.0 million of deferred revenue reflected in its balance sheet associated with the sales in excess of the price cap. the decision by argentine oil producers and refiners to not renew the price stability agreement beyond april 30, 2004 does not terminate the obligation of refiners to reimburse producers for balances that accumulated from january 2003 through april 2004, if and when the price of wti falls below $28.50. in may 2004, the argentine government increased the export tax from 20 percent to 25 percent. this tax is applied on the sales value after the tax, thus, the net effect of the 20 percent and 25 percent rates is 16.7 percent and 20 percent, respectively. in august 2004, the argentine government further increased the export tax rates for oil exports. the export tax now escalates from the current 25 percent (20 percent effective rate) to a maximum rate of 45 percent (31 percent effective rate) of the realized value for exported barrels as wti prices per barrel increase from less than $32.00 to $45.00 and above. the export tax is not deducted in the calculation of royalty payments and expires in february 2007. given the number of governmental changes during 2004 affecting the realized price the company receives for its oil sales, no specific predictions can be made about the future of oil prices in argentina, however, in the short term, the company expects argentine oil realizations to be less than oil realizations in the united states. as a result of economic emergency law enacted by the argentine government in january 2002, the company's gas prices, expressed in u.s. dollars, have also fallen in proportion to the devaluation of the argentine peso since the end of 2001 due to the pesofication of contracts and freezing of gas prices at the wellhead required by that law. as a baseline, the company's 2001 realized argentine gas price was $1.31 per mcf as compared to $.48, $.56 and $.66 in 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. the unfavorable gas price has acted to discourage gas development activities and increased gas demand. without development of gas reserves in argentina, supplies of gas in the country have declined, while demand for gas has been increasing due to the resurgence of the argentine economy and the higher cost of alternative fuels. recently, gas exports to chile were curtailed at the direction of the argentine government and argentina entered into an agreement to import gas from bolivia at prices starting at approximately $2.00 per mcf (at the border), including transportation costs. in may 2004, pursuant to a decree, the argentine government approved measures to permit producers to renegotiate gas sales contracts, excluding those that could affect small residential customers, in accordance with scheduled price increases specified in the decree. the wellhead prices in the decree rise from a current range of $.61 to $.78 per mcf to a range of $.87 to $1.04 per mcf after july 1, 2005, depending on the region where the gas is produced. no further gas price 38 increases beyond july 2005 have been allowed for in the current decree. other than an expectation that gas prices will be permitted to increase gradually over time, as has already been demonstrated by the governing authorities, no specific predictions can be made about the future of gas prices in argentina, however, the company expects argentine gas realizations to be less than gas realizations in the united states. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for further discussion of commodity prices in argentina. interest and other income. the company recorded interest and other income totaling $14.1 million, $12.3 million and $11.2 during the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the company's interest and other income was comprised of revenue that was not directly attributable to oil and gas producing activities or oil and gas property divestitures. see note n of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note k of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information regarding the company's derivative obligations. (e) the company's other liabilities represent current and noncurrent other liabilities that are comprised of benefit obligations, litigation and environmental contingencies, asset retirement obligations and other obligations for which neither the ultimate settlement amounts nor their timings can be precisely determined in advance. see notes h, j and m of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for more information about the company's debt instruments and interest rate hedging activities. the company's future debt level is dependent primarily on net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from financing activities and proceeds generated from asset dispositions. the company believes it has substantial borrowing capacity, which has been further enhanced during 2005 by the use of the vpp net proceeds to reduce outstanding indebtedness, to meet any unanticipated cash requirements, and during low commodity price periods, the company has the flexibility to increase borrowings and/or modify its capital spending to meet its contractual obligations and maintain its debt ratings. during 2005, $131.0 million of the company's 8-7/8% senior notes due 2005 (the "8-7/8% notes") will mature and the 364-day credit agreement will have its first anniversary. the company intends to initially utilize unused borrowing capacity under its 364-day credit agreement to repay the 8-7/8% notes and to transfer outstanding borrowings, if any, under the 364-day credit agreement to the company's revolving credit agreement on its first anniversary. the company also intends to refinance, under its revolving credit agreement, the cash component of a redemption price associated with any redemption of the convertible notes prior to december 2006, should redemptions occur. accordingly, the company's consolidated balance sheet does not reflect any current portion of long-term debt as of december 31, 2004. as the company pursues its strategy, it may utilize various financing sources, including fixed and floating rate debt, convertible securities, preferred stock or common stock. the company may also issue securities in exchange for oil and gas properties, stock or other interests in other oil and gas companies or related assets. additional securities may be of a class preferred to common stock with respect to such matters as dividends and liquidation rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined by the company's board of directors. liquidity. the company's principal source of short-term liquidity is its revolving lines of credit. outstanding borrowings under the lines of credit totaled $828 million as of december 31, 2004. including $49.3 million of undrawn and outstanding letters of credit under the lines of credit, the company had $722.7 million of unused borrowing capacity as of december 31, 2004. book capitalization and current ratio. the company's book capitalization at december 31, 2004 was $5.2 billion, consisting of debt of $2.4 billion and stockholders' equity of $2.8 billion. consequently, the company's debt to book capitalization decreased to 45.7 percent at december 31, 2004 from 46.9 percent at december 31, 2003. as more fully discussed in "2005 outlook and activities" above, the company has targeted a range for debt to book capitalization of less than 35 percent by the end of 2005. the company's ratio of current assets to current liabilities was .57 at december 31, 2004 as compared to .48 at december 31, 2003. the improvement in the company's ratio of current assets to current liabilities was primarily due to increases in oil and gas receivables due to higher commodity prices. debt ratings. the company receives debt credit ratings from standard & poor's ratings group, inc. ("s&p") and moody's investor services, inc. ("moody's") and are subject to regular reviews. the company's debt is currently rated bbb- with a negative outlook by s&p and baa3 with a negative outlook by moody's, both of which are investment- grade ratings. s&p and moody's consider many factors in determining the company's ratings including: production growth opportunities, liquidity, debt levels and asset and reserve mix. there are no "ratings triggers" in any of the company's contractual obligations that would accelerate the related scheduled maturities should the company's ratings fall below certain levels. if the company were to be downgraded by either s&p or moody's, it could negatively impact the interest rate and fees on existing indebtedness and the company's ability to obtain additional financing or the interest rate and fees associated with additional financing. new accounting pronouncement on december 16, 2004, the financial accounting standards board issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004), "share-based payment" ("sfas 123(r)"), which is a revision of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123, "accounting for stock-based compensation" ("sfas 46 123"). sfas 123(r) supersedes accounting principles bulletin opinion no. 25, "accounting for stock issued to employees" ("apb 25") and amends statement of financial accounting standards no. 95, "statement of cash flows". generally, the approach in sfas 123(r) is similar to the approach described in sfas 123. however, sfas 123(r) will require all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the company's consolidated statements of operations based on their fair values. pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. sfas 123(r) must be adopted no later than july 1, 2005 and permits public companies to adopt its requirements using one of two methods: o a "modified prospective" method in which compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date based on the requirements of sfas 123(r) for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and based on the requirements of sfas 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the adoption date of sfas 123(r) that remain unvested on the adoption date. o a "modified retrospective" method which includes the requirements of the modified prospective method described above, but also permits entities to restate either all prior periods presented or prior interim periods of the year of adoption based on the amounts previously recognized under sfas 123 for purposes of pro forma disclosures. the company has elected to adopt the provisions of sfas 123(r) on july 1, 2005 using the modified prospective method. as permitted by sfas 123, the company currently accounts for share-based payments to employees using the intrinsic value method prescribed by apb 25 and related interpretations. as such, the company generally does not recognize compensation expenses associated with employee stock options. accordingly, the adoption of sfas 123(r)'s fair value method could have a significant impact on the company's future result of operations, although it will have no impact on the company's overall financial position. had the company adopted sfas 123(r) in prior periods, the impact would have approximated the impact of sfas 123 as described in the pro forma net income and earnings per share disclosures in note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. 47 although certain derivative contracts that the company was a party to did not qualify as hedges, the company does not enter into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes. the fair value of the company's derivative contracts are determined based on counterparties' estimates and valuation models. the company did not change its valuation method during the year ended december 31, 2004. during 2004, the company was a party to commodity and interest rate swap contracts and commodity collar contracts. see note k of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors............................................... 10 risk factors" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 3 definitions of certain terms and conventions used herein within this report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings: o "bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 united states gallons. o "bcf" means one billion cubic feet. o "boe" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis. gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 mcf of gas to 1.0 bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. o "boepd" means boe per day. o "btu" means british thermal unit, which is a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree fahrenheit. o "cbm" means coal bed methane. o "field fuel" means gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. o "gaap" means accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states of america. o "libor" means london interbank offered rate, which is a market rate of interest. o "mbbl" means one thousand bbls. o "mboe" means one thousand boes. o "mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume. o "mmbbl" means one million bbls. o "mmboe" means one million boes. o "mmbtu" means one million btus. o "mmcf" means one million cubic feet. o "ngl" means natural gas liquid. o "nymex" means the new york mercantile exchange. o "nyse" means the new york stock exchange. o "pioneer" or the "company" means pioneer natural resources company and its subsidiaries. o "proved reserves" mean the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. the area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. in the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the "proved" classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (iii) estimates of proved reserves do not include the following:(a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as "indicated additional reserves"; (b) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. o "sec" means the united states securities and exchange commission. o "standardized measure" means the after-tax present value of estimated future net revenues of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the sec, using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent discount rate. o "vpp" means volumetric production payment. o "u.s." means united states. o with respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying "gross" wells, drilling locations and acres by the company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres. o unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed in u.s. dollars. 4 part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states, canada, equatorial guinea, nigeria, south africa and tunisia. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; calgary, canada; london, england; lagos, nigeria; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2006, the company had 1,624 employees, 924 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov. the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website (www.pxd.com) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. these strategies are anchored by the company's long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 89 percent of the company's proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2006. strategic initiatives and goals. during 2006, the company accomplished significant goals underlying the strategic initiatives established in 2005 to enhance shareholder value and investment returns. specifically, the company (i) essentially completed its $1 billion share repurchase program, (ii) successfully divested its deepwater gulf of mexico and argentina assets at attractive valuations, (iii) allocated and focused its investment capital more heavily towards predictable oil and gas basins in north america that delivered strong production growth and (iv) lowered its risk profile by expanding north american unconventional resource investments while reducing higher-risk exploration expenditures. 2007 plans. during 2007, the company plans to: (i) grow production by 10 percent or more, anchored by continued low-risk development drilling in the spraberry oil and raton gas fields, (ii) commence production at the south coast gas project in south africa in the second half of 2007, (iii) complete the construction and installation of facilities at the company's alaskan oooguruk project and initiate drilling in late 2007, with first production in 2008, (iv) progress development of the tunisian and edwards trend resource plays into production and reserve growth areas, (v) advance several other unconventional resource plays initiated during 2006, (vi) selectively explore for and develop proved reserves in areas that it believes will offer superior reserve growth and profitability potential; (vii) evaluate opportunities to acquire oil and gas properties that will complement the company's exploration and development 5 drilling activities; (viii) invest in the personnel and technology necessary to maximize the company's exploration and development successes; and (ix) maintain liquidity, allowing the company to take advantage of future exploration, development and acquisition opportunities. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil, ngl and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing experienced management and staff that will lead the company to prudent capital investment decisions, technological innovation and price and cost management. petroleum industry. for the last several years the petroleum industry has generally been characterized by volatile oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during 2006, the company's performance was also impacted by increasing costs, particularly higher drilling and well servicing rig rates and drilling supplies. during recent years, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from asian economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the middle east, nigeria, venezuela and other areas. in 2006, oil prices initially increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding middle east conflicts and then later decreased on moderating world demand and the easing of world tension, especially in the middle east. north american gas prices fell in 2006 as a result of increased north american drilling and production, a very mild start to winter and a very large gas inventory overhang. significant factors that will impact 2007 commodity prices include developments in the issues currently impacting iraq and iran and the middle east in general; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") and other oil exporting nations are able to continue to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including the impact of increasing liquefied natural gas ("lng") deliveries to the united states. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company's net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity hedge contracts. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2006, 2005 and 2004 from the company's hedging activities and the company's open hedge positions at december 31, 2006. the company. the company's asset base is anchored by the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the hugoton gas field located in southwest kansas, the raton gas field located in southern colorado and the west panhandle gas field located in the texas panhandle. complementing these areas, the company has exploration and development opportunities and/or oil and gas production activities in the gulf of mexico, the onshore gulf coast area and alaska, and internationally in canada, equatorial guinea, nigeria, south africa and tunisia. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, ngls and gas, and that are also well balanced between long-lived, dependable production, lower-risk exploration and development opportunities and a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. additionally, the company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, legal, financial and management support to united states and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce oil, ngl and gas reserves. production operations are principally located domestically in texas, kansas, colorado, louisiana, utah and the gulf of mexico, and internationally in canada, south africa and tunisia. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. during the year ended december 31, 2006, the company's average daily production, on a boe basis, decreased as a result of (i) initiation of oil deliveries in january 2006 associated with certain vpp transactions completed in 2005, which reduced the company's reported production and (ii) production decreases in the company's 6 sable oil field in south africa and the adam concession oil field in tunisia. partially offsetting the decreases in production volumes were increases in oil production in the spraberry field and gas production from the raton field and canada as part of the company's aggressive 2006 drilling program. excluding the delivery of the vpp volumes in 2006 (5.6 mmboe) and 2005 (2.5 mmboe), the company's north american production increased approximately nine percent, which the company believes provides a better understanding of the actual results of the company's 2006 north american drilling program excluding the increased scheduled vpp deliveries. production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for 2006, 2005 and 2004 is set forth under "item 2. properties -- selected oil and gas information -- production, price and cost data". development activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2006, the company drilled 2,346 gross (2,159 net) wells, 94 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $3.0 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2006 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 202 mmbbls of oil and ngls and 1,082 bcf of gas. development of these proved reserves will require future capital expenditures. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price environment, the company's expected operating cash flows and the company's financial condition. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves and unproved prospects provides attractive development and exploration opportunities for at least the next three to five years. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled exploration staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities complemented by a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. during 2006, the company divested substantially all of its assets in the deepwater gulf of mexico and argentina and focused its exploration efforts towards lower-risk onshore north america and africa opportunities. in the 2007 capital spending budget, the company expects to spend approximately 20 percent of its $1.1 billion capital budget to test and develop lower-risk resource plays in onshore north america and tunisia, and another five percent for high-impact exploration in the u.s. (principally alaska) and west africa. exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1a. risk factors - -- drilling activities" below. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2006, 2005 and 2004, the company invested $223.2 million, $272.9 million and $2.6 billion, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for a description of the company's acquisitions during 2006, 2005 and 2004. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets and entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence, the submission of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of a letter of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and will depend on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. see "item 1a. risk factors -- acquisitions". asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does 7 not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. see notes n, t and v of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's asset divestitures, vpps and discontinued operations during 2006, 2005 and 2004. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. operations by geographic area the company operates in one industry segment, that being oil and gas exploration and production. see note r of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as the index or spot price for gas or the posted price for oil, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, well pressure, estimated reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions. see "qualitative disclosures" in "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2006, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were oneok resources (12 percent), plains marketing lp (12 percent) and occidental energy marketing, inc. (11 percent). the company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. hedging activities. the company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the cash flow to fund the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's hedging activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information concerning the impact on oil and gas revenues during 2006, 2005 and 2004 from commodity hedging activities and the company's open and terminated commodity hedge positions at december 31, 2006. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and purchase such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. higher recent commodity prices have increased the cost of properties available for acquisition. many of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity 8 prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. governmental regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that will ensure that material information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known to the company's management and that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. compliance with some of these regulations is costly and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. oil and gas exploration and production operations are also subject to various types of regulation by local, state, federal and foreign agencies. additionally, the company's operations are subject to state conservation laws and regulations, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. states and foreign governments also generally impose a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil and gas within their respective jurisdictions. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the company's cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by the united states congress, the federal energy regulatory commission, state regulatory bodies, the courts and foreign governments. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on the company's operations. environmental and health controls. the company's operations are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental and health protection. these laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas or impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from oil and gas operations. the company's inability to obtain these permits in a timely manner or at all could cause delays or otherwise negatively impact the company's ability to implement its business plans. failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions that limit or prevent operations. although the company believes that compliance with u.s. and foreign environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its future results of operations or financial condition, risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in oil and gas operations, and there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred or that curtailment in production or processing might not arise as a result of such compliance. moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or persons resulting from the company's operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. in the u.s., the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the "superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons with respect to the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under cercla may be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company generates wastes in the u.s., including hazardous wastes, that are subject to the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes. the u.s. environmental protection agency and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain 9 hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. furthermore, certain wastes generated by the company's oil and gas operations that are currently exempt from treatment as hazardous wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes, and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly operating and disposal requirements. the company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased, properties in the u.s. that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas reserves. although the company has used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company or on or under other locations where such hydrocarbons or wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal. in addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under the company's control. these properties and the hydrocarbons or wastes disposed thereon may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination or to perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. federal regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that store or otherwise handle oil, such as the company, to prepare and implement spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. the oil pollution act of 1990 ("opa") amends certain provisions of the federal water pollution control act of 1972, commonly referred to as the clean water act ("cwa"), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and response to oil spills into navigable waters of the u.s. the opa subjects owners of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. the cwa provides penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable quantities and imposes substantial liability for the costs of removing a spill. opa requires responsible parties to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover removal costs and damages resulting from an oil spill. opa calls for a financial responsibility of $35 million to cover pollution cleanup for offshore facilities. state laws for the control of water pollution also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground. the company does not believe that the opa, cwa or related state laws are any more burdensome to it than they are to other similarly situated oil and gas companies. many states in which the company operates regulate naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm") and norm wastes that are generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production activities. norm wastes typically consist of very low-level radioactive substances that become concentrated in pipes and production equipment. certain state regulations require the testing of pipes and production equipment for the presence of norm, the licensing of norm-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and disposal of norm wastes. the company believes the regulation of norm has minimal effect on its operations because the company generates only small quantities of norm on an annual basis. the company's field operations in the u.s. involve the use of gas-fired compressors, which are subject to the federal clean air act and analogous state laws governing the control and permitting of air emissions. the company believes that it is in compliance with applicable permitting and control technology requirements of such laws and regulations; however, in the future, additional facilities could become subject to additional permitting, monitoring and pollution control requirements as compressor facilities are expanded. the company's operations outside of the u.s. are generally subject to similar foreign governmental controls relating to protection of the environment. the company believes that compliance with the existing requirements of these foreign governmental bodies has not had a material adverse effect on the company's operations. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business -- competition, markets and regulations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk". these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be impacted 10 by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer's ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. commodity prices. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on oil and gas prices. these prices are affected by the supply of and market for oil and gas and numerous other factors beyond the company's control. historically, oil and gas prices have been very volatile. a significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties and goodwill and the recognition of deferred tax asset valuation allowances or an increase in the company's deferred tax asset valuation allowance, depending on the company's tax attributes in each country in which it has activities. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's operating expenses, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, is largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below expectations, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. hedging activities. to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil and gas prices, we have entered into, and expect in the future to enter into, hedging arrangements for a portion of our oil and gas production. these hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: o production is less than the hedged volumes, o the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on their contract obligations, or o the hedging arrangements limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in oil and gas prices. drilling activities. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2007, although only five percent of the company's 2007 capital budget is devoted to higher-risk exploratory projects. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to reduced availability, extended delivery times and increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. the company expects that these trends will continue in the foreseeable future and, if so, they may impact the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. unproved properties. at december 31, 2006, the company carried unproved property costs of $210.3 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. acquisitions. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a key element of the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and the assessment of possible environmental liabilities. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company 11 performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following acquisition, materially and adversely impacting the desired benefits of the acquisition. divestitures. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the tnrasction and ultimately may be material. goodwill. at december 31, 2006, the company carried goodwill of $309.9 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the company's assets and liabilities. if the fair value of the company's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. operation of gas processing plants. as of december 31, 2006, the company owned interests in seven gas processing plants and seven treating facilities. the company operates five of the plants and all seven treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. for example, in may 2005, the company's fain gas plant was shut in for two months due to a mechanical failure that resulted in a fire. operating hazards and uninsured losses. the company's operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, adverse weather effects and pollution and other environmental damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. increased hurricane activity in 2005 and 2004 resulted in production curtailments and physical damage to the company's gulf of mexico operations. although the company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of the risks described in this paragraph, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. environmental. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business -- competition, markets and regulations -- environmental and health controls" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. impact of weather and climate. demand for oil and natural gas are, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts the price 12 the company receives for its production. in addition the company's production, exploration and development activities and equipment can be adversely affected by severe weather, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged equipment, or unseasonal climate, which may delay or otherwise disrupt drilling and production schedules. not all such effects can be predicted, eliminated or insured against. debt restrictions and availability. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and a variable rate credit facility. the terms of the company's borrowings under the senior notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's outstanding debt as of december 31, 2006 and the terms associated therewith. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also impacted by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a discussion of the company's debt credit ratings. competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with other companies, producers and operators for acquisitions and in the exploration, development, production and marketing of oil and gas. some of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see "item 1. business -- competition, markets and regulations" above for additional discussion regarding competition. key personnel. our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of a relatively small number of key senior managers and technical personnel. the loss of any existing key personnel, or the inability to attract, motivate and retain additional key personnel, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. government regulation. the company's business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company's business and operations. see "item 1. business -- competition, markets and regulations" above for additional discussion regarding government regulation. international operations. at december 31, 2006, approximately five percent of the company's proved reserves of oil, ngls and gas were located outside the united states (three percent in canada and two percent in africa). the success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and united states taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. in some cases, the market for the company's production in foreign countries is limited to some extent. for example, all of the company's gas and condensate production from the south coast gas project is currently committed by contract to a single, government-affiliated gas-to-liquids facility. if such facility ceased to purchase the gas because of an unforeseen event excusing performance, it might be difficult to find an alternative market for the production, and if such a market were secured, the price received by the company might be less than that provided under its current gas sales contract. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations", "qualitative disclosures - foreign currency, operations and price risk" in "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding other risks associated with the company's international operations. estimates of reserves and future net revenues. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. 13 petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: o historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, o the quality and quantity of available data, o the interpretation of that data, o the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies, o assumptions concerning future oil and gas sales prices and o assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs. because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: o the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, o the production and operating costs incurred, o the amount and timing of future development expenditures and o future oil and gas sales prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: o the amount and timing of actual production, o increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil and gas and o changes in governmental regulations or taxation. the company reports all proved reserves held under production sharing arrangements and concessions utilizing the "economic interest" method, which excludes the host country's share of proved reserves. estimated quantities of production sharing arrangements reported under the "economic interest" method are subject to fluctuations in the price of oil and gas and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. if costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. it requires the use of oil and gas prices, as well as operating and development costs, prevailing as of the date of computation. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially different from the net revenues that are ultimately received. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net 14 cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. production forecasts. from time to time the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely impacted. downturns in commodity prices could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical, which would also adversely impact production. stock repurchases. the board of directors (the "board") approves share repurchase programs and sets limits on the price per share at which pioneer's common stock can be repurchased. the company is not permitted to repurchase its stock during certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading blackouts. additionally, business conditions and availability of capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or canceled. as a result, there can be no assurance that additional repurchases will be commenced and, if so, that they will be completed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 56 quantitative disclosures................................ 56 qualitative disclosures................................. 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 3 definitions of certain terms and conventions used herein within this report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings: o "bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 united states gallons. o "bcf" means one billion cubic feet. o "boe" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis. gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 mcf of gas to 1.0 bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. o "boepd" means boe per day. o "btu" means british thermal unit, which is a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree fahrenheit. o "cbm" means coal bed methane. o "field fuel" means gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. o "gaap" means accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states of america. o "libor" means london interbank offered rate, which is a market rate of interest. o "mbbl" means one thousand bbls. o "mboe" means one thousand boes. o "mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume. o "mmbbl" means one million bbls. o "mmboe" means one million boes. o "mmbtu" means one million btus. o "mmcf" means one million cubic feet. o "ngl" means natural gas liquid. o "nymex" means the new york mercantile exchange. o "nyse" means the new york stock exchange. o "pioneer" or the "company" means pioneer natural resources company and its subsidiaries. o "proved reserves" mean the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. the area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. in the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the "proved" classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (iii) estimates of proved reserves do not include the following:(a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as "indicated additional reserves"; (b) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. o "sec" means the united states securities and exchange commission. o "standardized measure" means the after-tax present value of estimated future net revenues of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the sec, using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent discount rate. o "vpp" means volumetric production payment. o "u.s." means united states. o with respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying "gross" wells, drilling locations and acres by the company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres. o unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed in u.s. dollars. 4 part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states, canada, equatorial guinea, nigeria, south africa and tunisia. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; calgary, canada; london, england; lagos, nigeria; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2006, the company had 1,624 employees, 924 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov. the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website (www.pxd.com) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. these strategies are anchored by the company's long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 89 percent of the company's proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2006. strategic initiatives and goals. during 2006, the company accomplished significant goals underlying the strategic initiatives established in 2005 to enhance shareholder value and investment returns. specifically, the company (i) essentially completed its $1 billion share repurchase program, (ii) successfully divested its deepwater gulf of mexico and argentina assets at attractive valuations, (iii) allocated and focused its investment capital more heavily towards predictable oil and gas basins in north america that delivered strong production growth and (iv) lowered its risk profile by expanding north american unconventional resource investments while reducing higher-risk exploration expenditures. 2007 plans. during 2007, the company plans to: (i) grow production by 10 percent or more, anchored by continued low-risk development drilling in the spraberry oil and raton gas fields, (ii) commence production at the south coast gas project in south africa in the second half of 2007, (iii) complete the construction and installation of facilities at the company's alaskan oooguruk project and initiate drilling in late 2007, with first production in 2008, (iv) progress development of the tunisian and edwards trend resource plays into production and reserve growth areas, (v) advance several other unconventional resource plays initiated during 2006, (vi) selectively explore for and develop proved reserves in areas that it believes will offer superior reserve growth and profitability potential; (vii) evaluate opportunities to acquire oil and gas properties that will complement the company's exploration and development 5 drilling activities; (viii) invest in the personnel and technology necessary to maximize the company's exploration and development successes; and (ix) maintain liquidity, allowing the company to take advantage of future exploration, development and acquisition opportunities. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil, ngl and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing experienced management and staff that will lead the company to prudent capital investment decisions, technological innovation and price and cost management. petroleum industry. for the last several years the petroleum industry has generally been characterized by volatile oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during 2006, the company's performance was also impacted by increasing costs, particularly higher drilling and well servicing rig rates and drilling supplies. during recent years, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from asian economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the middle east, nigeria, venezuela and other areas. in 2006, oil prices initially increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding middle east conflicts and then later decreased on moderating world demand and the easing of world tension, especially in the middle east. north american gas prices fell in 2006 as a result of increased north american drilling and production, a very mild start to winter and a very large gas inventory overhang. significant factors that will impact 2007 commodity prices include developments in the issues currently impacting iraq and iran and the middle east in general; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") and other oil exporting nations are able to continue to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including the impact of increasing liquefied natural gas ("lng") deliveries to the united states. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company's net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity hedge contracts. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2006, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were oneok resources (12 percent), plains marketing lp (12 percent) and occidental energy marketing, inc. (11 percent). the company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. hedging activities. the company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the cash flow to fund the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's hedging activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk". these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be impacted 10 by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer's ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. commodity prices. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on oil and gas prices. these prices are affected by the supply of and market for oil and gas and numerous other factors beyond the company's control. historically, oil and gas prices have been very volatile. a significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties and goodwill and the recognition of deferred tax asset valuation allowances or an increase in the company's deferred tax asset valuation allowance, depending on the company's tax attributes in each country in which it has activities. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's operating expenses, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, is largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below expectations, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these expenses are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. hedging activities. to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil and gas prices, we have entered into, and expect in the future to enter into, hedging arrangements for a portion of our oil and gas production. these hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: o production is less than the hedged volumes, o the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on their contract obligations, or o the hedging arrangements limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in oil and gas prices. drilling activities. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2007, although only five percent of the company's 2007 capital budget is devoted to higher-risk exploratory projects. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to reduced availability, extended delivery times and increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. the company expects that these trends will continue in the foreseeable future and, if so, they may impact the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. unproved properties. at december 31, 2006, the company carried unproved property costs of $210.3 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. acquisitions. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a key element of the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and the assessment of possible environmental liabilities. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company 11 performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following acquisition, materially and adversely impacting the desired benefits of the acquisition. divestitures. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the tnrasction and ultimately may be material. goodwill. at december 31, 2006, the company carried goodwill of $309.9 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the company's assets and liabilities. if the fair value of the company's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. operation of gas processing plants. as of december 31, 2006, the company owned interests in seven gas processing plants and seven treating facilities. the company operates five of the plants and all seven treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. for example, in may 2005, the company's fain gas plant was shut in for two months due to a mechanical failure that resulted in a fire. operating hazards and uninsured losses. the company's operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, adverse weather effects and pollution and other environmental damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. increased hurricane activity in 2005 and 2004 resulted in production curtailments and physical damage to the company's gulf of mexico operations. although the company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of the risks described in this paragraph, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. environmental. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business -- competition, markets and regulations -- environmental and health controls" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. impact of weather and climate. demand for oil and natural gas are, to a significant degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts the price 12 the company receives for its production. in addition the company's production, exploration and development activities and equipment can be adversely affected by severe weather, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged equipment, or unseasonal climate, which may delay or otherwise disrupt drilling and production schedules. not all such effects can be predicted, eliminated or insured against. debt restrictions and availability. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and a variable rate credit facility. the terms of the company's borrowings under the senior notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for disclosures about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. capital budget for 2007. the company announced a 2007 capital budget of $1.1 billion, excluding acquisitions, effects of asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest and geological and geophysical administrative costs. the 2007 capital budget is allocated (i) 50 percent to low-risk development drilling in onshore north american core areas, (ii) 25 percent to the development of the south african south coast gas and alaskan oooguruk projects, (iii) 20 percent to test and develop lower-risk resource plays in onshore north america and tunisia and (iv) 5 percent to high-impact exploration activities in the united states and west africa. the company plans to drill and recomplete approximately 650 to 700 wells during 2007. 2007 annual production. the company believes that the results from its 2006 drilling program and 2007 capital budget will allow the company to realize production growth during 2007 of 10 percent or more as compared to the company's 2006 production. first quarter 2007 outlook. based on current estimates, the company expects that first quarter 2007 production will average 97,000 to 102,000 boepd. the range reflects the typical variability in the timing of oil cargo shipments in south africa and tunisia and the recent downtime related to severe winter weather in the company's rockies and mid-continent areas, which is expected to reduce first quarter production by approximately 3,000 boepd. first quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes and transportation costs) are expected to average $11.25 to $12.25 per boe based on current nymex strip prices for oil and gas, reduced production due to weather downtime and increased weather-related repair costs. depletion, depreciation and amortization ("dd&a") expense is expected to average $10.00 to $11.00 per boe. total exploration and abandonment expense for the quarter is expected to be $50 million to $90 million including (i) up to $25 million from high-impact drilling on alaska's north slope, (ii) up to $30 million from activities in the company's resource plays in the edwards trend in south texas, uinta/piceance in 37 the rockies area, canada and tunisia, (iii) $30 million in seismic investments and personnel costs, primarily related to the resource plays the company is currently progressing and (iv) $5 million related to acreage and other costs. general and administrative expense is expected to be $30 million to $35 million. interest expense is expected to be $25 million to $28 million. accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be $1 million to $2 million. the company's first quarter effective income tax rate is expected to range from 37 percent to 45 percent based on current capital spending plans and higher tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions. cash income taxes are expected to range from $5 million to $15 million, principally related to tunisian income taxes. share repurchase programs. in february 2007, the company announced that the board approved a new share repurchase program that authorizes the purchase of up to $300 million of the company's common stock. this share repurchase program follows the company's previous share repurchase programs of $1 billion and $300 million, which were essentially completed during 2006 and 2005, respectively. acquisitions 2006 acquisition expenditures. during 2006, the company spent approximately $223.2 million to acquire proved and unproved properties, which was comprised of approximately $144.8 million of proved properties and $78.3 million of unproved properties. the proved properties were primarily bolt-on and acreage acquisitions in the spraberry field and edwards trend area. in north america, the acquisition of unproved properties is comprised of acreage acquisitions in the spraberry field, edwards trend area, rockies area, alaska and canada. the company also acquired an additional interest in its jenein nord block in tunisia and recognized additional obligations associated with its nigerian prospects during 2006. 2005 acquisition expenditures. in july 2005, the company completed the acquisition of approximately 70 mmboe of substantially proved undeveloped oil reserves in the united states core areas of the permian basin and south texas for $176.9 million. 2004 evergreen merger. on september 28, 2004, pioneer completed a merger with evergreen resources, inc. ("evergreen"). pioneer acquired the common stock of evergreen for a total purchase price of approximately $1.8 billion, which was comprised of cash and pioneer common stock. divestitures argentina and deepwater gulf of mexico. during march 2006, the company sold its interests in certain oil and gas properties in the deepwater gulf of mexico for net proceeds of $1.2 billion, resulting in a gain of $726.2 million. during april 2006, the company sold its argentine assets for net proceeds of $669.6 million, resulting in a gain of $10.9 million. the historic results of these properties and the related gains on disposition are reported as discontinued operations. volumetric production payments. during january 2005, the company sold 20.5 mmboe of proved reserves in the hugoton and spraberry fields, by means of two vpps for net proceeds of $592.3 million, including the assignment of the company's obligations under certain derivative hedge agreements. during april 2005, the company sold 7.3 mmboe of proved reserves in the spraberry field, by means of a vpp for net proceeds of $300.3 million, including the value attributable to certain derivative hedge agreements assigned to the buyer of the april vpp. the company's vpps represent limited-term overriding royalty interests in oil and gas reserves which: (i) entitle the purchaser to receive production volumes over a period of time from specific lease interests; (ii) are free and clear of all associated future production costs and capital expenditures; (iii) are nonrecourse to the company (i.e., the purchaser's only recourse is to the assets acquired); (iv) transfers title of the assets to the purchaser and (v) allows the company to retain the assets after the vpps volumetric quantities have been delivered. 38 canada and shelf gulf of mexico. during 2005, the company sold its interests in the martin creek and conroy black areas of northeast british columbia and the lookout butte area of southern alberta for net proceeds of $197.2 million, resulting in a gain of $138.3 million. during 2005, the company also sold all of its interests in certain oil and gas properties on the gulf of mexico shelf for net proceeds of $59.2 million, resulting in a gain of $27.9 million. the historic results of these properties and the related gains on disposition are reported as discontinued operations. gabon divestiture. in 2005, the company closed the sale of the shares in a gabonese subsidiary that owns the interest in the olowi block for $47.9 million of net proceeds, resulting in a gain of $47.5 million with no associated income tax effect either in gabon or the united states. in addition, pioneer retains the potential, under certain circumstances, to receive additional payments for production discovered from deeper reservoirs on the block, if any. results of operations oil and gas revenues. oil and gas revenues totaled $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.0 billion during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the revenue increase during 2006, as compared to 2005, was due to a 69 percent increase in reported oil prices, including the effects of commodity price hedges and vpp deliveries, and an 11 percent increase in ngl prices. partially offsetting the effects of increased oil and ngl prices was an 11 percent decrease in reported gas prices, including the effects of commodity price hedges and vpp deliveries, and a three percent decrease in average daily sales volumes on a boe basis. the revenue increase during 2005, as compared to 2004, was due to a 19 percent increase in reported oil prices, a 27 percent increase in ngl prices and a 42 percent increase in reported gas prices, including the effects of commodity price hedges and vpp deliveries, along with increased production in 2005 on a boe basis. a significant factor contributing to the increases in reported oil prices and decreases in reported oil sales volumes in 2006 as compared to 2005 was the initiation of first deliveries of oil volumes under the company's vpp agreements in january 2006. similarly, reported gas prices and decreases in gas sales volumes in 2006 and 2005 as compared to 2004 were impacted by the initiation of first deliveries of gas volumes under the company's vpp agreements during the first half of 2005 offset by the decline in underlying gas prices. in accordance with gaap, vpp deliveries result in vpp deferred revenue amortization being recognized in oil and gas revenues with no associated sales volumes being recorded. 39 the following table provides average daily sales volumes from continuing operations, including the effects of delivery of the vpp volumes, by geographic area and in total, for 2006, 2005 and 2004: year ended december 31, ------------------------------- 2006 2005 2004 -------- -------- -------- oil (bbls): united states.................. 17,716 21,942 21,863 canada......................... 311 210 72 south africa................... 4,127 6,588 9,368 tunisia........................ 2,386 3,477 2,308 -------- -------- ------- worldwide...................... 24,540 32,217 33,611 ======== ======== ======= ngls (bbls): united states.................. 18,488 17,403 19,678 canada......................... 463 503 425 -------- -------- ------- worldwide...................... 18,951 17,906 20,103 ======== ======== ======= gas (mcf): united states.................. 284,732 271,033 209,371 canada......................... 43,420 36,427 25,606 south africa................... -- -- -- tunisia........................ 1,195 -- -- -------- -------- ------- worldwide...................... 329,347 307,460 234,977 ======== ======== ======= total (boe): united states.................. 83,659 84,517 76,437 canada......................... 8,011 6,784 4,764 south africa................... 4,127 6,588 9,368 tunisia........................ 2,585 3,477 2,308 -------- -------- ------- worldwide...................... 98,382 101,366 92,877 ======== ======== ======= on a boe basis, average daily production for 2006, as compared to 2005, increased by 18 percent in canada, while average daily production decreased by one percent in the united states and by 33 percent in africa. average daily per boe production for 2005, as compared to 2004, increased by 11 percent and 42 percent in the united states and canada, respectively, and decreased by 14 percent in africa. average daily production in the united states was slightly lower during 2006, as compared to 2005, primarily due to a 126 percent increase in vpp oil and gas deliveries on a boe basis, partially offset by accelerated development drilling in core areas. the increase in united states production volumes during 2005, as compared to 2004, was primarily due to production from properties acquired in the evergreen merger, partially offset by first deliveries of vpp gas volumes during 2005. canadian average daily sales volumes increased during 2006, as compared to 2005, primarily due to the significant drilling activity in the cbm horseshoe canyon area. the increase in canadian production volumes during 2005, as compared to 2004, was primarily due to new production from canadian properties acquired in the evergreen merger and production from new wells drilled during the 2004 - 2005 winter drilling program. production declined in africa during 2006 and 2005 primarily due to (i) normal production declines from producing properties in south africa and tunisia, partially offset by drilling success in tunisia and (ii) the company's interest in the adam concession in tunisia being reduced in 2006 from 24 percent to 20 percent in accordance with the terms of the concession agreement. in tunisia, the company recorded gas sales volumes and revenue for the first time after finalizing a gas sales arrangement during 2006. 40 the following table provides average daily sales volumes from discontinued operations during 2006, 2005 and 2004: year ended december 31, ---------------------------------- 2006 2005 2004 -------- -------- -------- oil (bbls): united states..................... 2,400 5,280 4,774 argentina......................... 2,515 7,869 8,534 canada............................ -- 28 65 -------- -------- -------- worldwide......................... 4,915 13,177 13,373 ======== ======== ======== ngls (bbls): united states..................... -- 65 60 argentina......................... 421 1,824 1,546 canada............................ -- 112 492 -------- -------- -------- worldwide......................... 421 2,001 2,098 ======== ======== ======== gas (mcf): united states..................... 36,038 230,171 312,468 argentina......................... 43,905 137,032 121,654 canada............................ 14 6,489 16,261 -------- -------- -------- worldwide......................... 79,957 373,692 450,383 ======== ======== ======== total (boe): united states..................... 8,406 43,707 56,912 argentina......................... 10,253 32,531 30,356 canada............................ 2 1,221 3,267 -------- -------- -------- worldwide......................... 18,661 77,459 90,535 ======== ======== ======== 41 the following table provides average reported prices from continuing operations, including the results of hedging activities and the amortization of vpp deferred revenue, and average realized prices from continuing operations, excluding the results of hedging activities and the amortization of vpp deferred revenue, by geographic area and in total, for 2006, 2005 and 2004: year ended december 31, -------------------------------- 2006 2005 2004 -------- -------- -------- average reported prices: oil (per bbl): united states........................ $ 65.73 $ 32.01 $ 29.53 canada............................... $ 65.57 $ 52.12 $ 48.37 south africa......................... $ 65.92 $ 53.01 $ 37.87 tunisia.............................. $ 63.16 $ 52.98 $ 39.14 worldwide............................ $ 65.51 $ 38.70 $ 32.56 ngl (per bbl): united states........................ $ 35.24 $ 31.72 $ 25.05 canada............................... $ 51.47 $ 45.79 $ 32.03 worldwide............................ $ 35.64 $ 32.12 $ 25.20 gas (per mcf): united states........................ $ 6.15 $ 6.94 $ 4.99 canada............................... $ 6.75 $ 7.67 $ 4.72 tunisia.............................. $ 5.97 $ -- $ -- worldwide............................ $ 6.23 $ 7.02 $ 4.96 average realized prices: oil (per bbl): united states........................ $ 62.92 $ 54.05 $ 39.22 canada............................... $ 65.57 $ 52.12 $ 48.37 south africa......................... $ 65.74 $ 53.01 $ 38.60 tunisia.............................. $ 63.16 $ 52.98 $ 39.14 worldwide............................ $ 63.45 $ 53.71 $ 39.06 ngl (per bbl): united states........................ $ 35.24 $ 31.72 $ 25.05 canada............................... $ 51.47 $ 45.79 $ 32.03 worldwide............................ $ 35.64 $ 32.12 $ 25.20 gas (per mcf): united states........................ $ 5.96 $ 7.26 $ 5.46 canada............................... $ 6.61 $ 7.67 $ 5.37 tunisia.............................. $ 5.97 $ -- $ -- worldwide............................ $ 6.04 $ 7.31 $ 5.45 hedging activities. the company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. during 2006, 2005 and 2004, the company's commodity price hedges decreased oil and gas revenues from continuing operations by $149.0 million, $284.9 million and $121.9 million, respectively. the effective portions of changes in the fair values of the company's commodity price hedges are deferred as increases or decreases to stockholders' equity until the underlying hedged transaction occurs. consequently, changes in the effective portions of commodity price hedges add volatility to the company's reported stockholders' equity until the hedge derivative matures or is terminated. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional disclosures about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. subsequent to december 31, 2006, the company reduced its oil hedge positions by terminating certain oil swap contracts and increased its gas hedge position by adding additional gas swap contracts. see note j of notes to 42 consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. although certain derivative contracts to which the company has been a party did not qualify as hedges, the company does not enter into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes. the fair value of the company's derivative contracts is determined based on counterparties' estimates and valuation models. the company did not change its valuation method during 2006. during 2006, the company was a party to commodity, interest rate and foreign exchange rate swap contracts and commodity collar contracts. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 12 risk factors" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 3 definitions of certain terms and conventions used herein within this report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings: &bull; "bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 united states gallons. &bull; "bcf" means one billion cubic feet. &bull; "boe" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis. gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 mcf of gas to 1.0 bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. &bull; "boepd" means boe per day. &bull; "btu" means british thermal unit, which is a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree fahrenheit. &bull; "cbm" means coal bed methane. &bull; "field fuel" means gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. &bull; "gaap" means accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states of america. &bull; "libor" means london interbank offered rate, which is a market rate of interest. &bull; "lng" means liquefied natural gas. &bull; "mbbl" means one thousand bbls. &bull; "mboe" means one thousand boes. &bull; "mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume. &bull; "mmbbl" means one million bbls. &bull; "mmboe" means one million boes. &bull; "mmbtu" means one million btus. &bull; "mmcf" means one million cubic feet. &bull; "mmcfpd" means one million cubic feet per day. &bull; "ngl" means natural gas liquid. &bull; "nymex" means the new york mercantile exchange. &bull; "nyse" means the new york stock exchange. &bull; "pioneer" or the "company" means pioneer natural resources company and its subsidiaries. &bull; "proved reserves" mean the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e. , prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. the area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. in the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the "proved" classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (iii) estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as "indicated additional reserves"; (b) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. &bull; "sec" means the united states securities and exchange commission. &bull; "standardized measure" means the after-tax present value of estimated future net cash flows of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the sec, using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a ten percent discount rate. &bull; "vpp" means volumetric production payment. &bull; "u.s." means united states. &bull; with respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying "gross" wells, drilling locations and acres by the company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres. &bull; unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed in u.s. dollars. 4 part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states, south africa and tunisia. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; london, england; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2007, the company had 1,702 employees, 1,032 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. these strategies are anchored by the company's long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 89 percent of the company's proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2007. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. for the last several years the petroleum industry has generally been characterized by volatile oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during recent years, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from developing economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the middle east, nigeria, venezuela and other areas. in 2007, oil prices increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding middle east conflicts and increasing world demand for both oil and refined products. a significant increase of refinery outages led to tightness in products markets which was responsible for oil price strength throughout much of the year. north american gas prices were generally consistent throughout 2007. early 2007 price weakness, a result of a significant inventory overhang and mild weather, was largely offset by early fall when lng imports to the gulf coast were reduced. lng cargoes slated for delivery into the u.s. instead were sold into asia and europe in response to major demand increases brought on by harsh weather and large nuclear powered electric generation plant outages. significant factors that will impact 2008 commodity prices include: developments in the issues currently impacting 5 iraq and iran and the middle east in general; demand of asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") and other oil exporting nations are able to continue to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including the impact of uncertain lng deliveries to the united states. perhaps the issue having the greatest impact on prices will be the strength of the u.s. economy and the prospect of a recession. in conjunction with the relatively higher commodity prices experienced during 2007, the company also experienced increasing costs, particularly higher drilling and well servicing rig rates and drilling supplies. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company's net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity hedge contracts. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2007, 2006 and 2005 from the company's hedging activities and the company's open hedge positions at december 31, 2007. the company. the company's asset base is anchored by the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the hugoton gas field located in southwest kansas and the west panhandle gas field located in the texas panhandle. complementing these areas, the company has exploration and development opportunities and/or oil and gas production activities in the edwards trend area of south texas, the barnett shale area of north texas, the gulf of mexico shelf, mississippi and alaska, and internationally in south africa and tunisia. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, ngls and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production, lower-risk exploration and development opportunities and a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. additionally, the company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to united states and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. production operations are principally located domestically in texas, kansas, colorado, alaska, mississippi and the gulf of mexico shelf, and internationally in south africa and tunisia. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. during the year ended december 31, 2007, the company's average daily production, on a boe basis, increased eight percent as a result of successful drilling programs in the united states and tunisia and a five percent decrease in the delivery of vpp volumes. production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for 2007, 2006 and 2005 is set forth under "item 2. properties &mdash; selected oil and gas information &mdash; production, price and cost data". development activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2007, the company drilled 2,608 gross (2,415 net) wells, 96 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $4.2 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2007 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 221 mmbbls of oil and ngls and 1,003 bcf of gas. development of these proved reserves will require future capital expenditures. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price environment, the company's expected operating cash flows and the company's financial condition. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves and unproved prospects provides attractive development and exploration opportunities for at least the next three to five years. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities complemented by a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. in 2008, the company expects to spend approximately 90 percent of its $1.0 billion capital budget on low-risk development and resource play extension drilling in its four core onshore areas (spraberry, raton, edwards trend and tunisia). the remaining ten percent will be focused primarily on development drilling in the company's alaskan oooguruk project and barnett shale drilling. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities 6 of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1a. risk factors &mdash; drilling activities" below. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company invested $536.7 million, $223.2 million and $272.9 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for a description of the company's acquisitions of proved oil and gas properties during 2007, 2006 and 2005. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence, the submission of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of a letter of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and will depend on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. see "item 1a. risk factors &mdash; acquisitions". asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. see notes n, t and v of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's asset divestitures, vpps and discontinued operations during 2007, 2006 and 2005. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. operations by geographic area the company operates in one industry segment, that being oil and gas exploration and production. see note r of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as the index or spot price for gas or the spot price for oil, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, well pressure, estimated reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions. see "qualitative disclosures" in "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2007, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (14 percent), oneok resources (11 percent) and occidental energy marketing, inc. (11 percent). the company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. hedging activities. the company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's hedging activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information concerning the impact on oil and gas revenues 7 during 2007, 2006 and 2005 from commodity hedging activities and the company's open and terminated commodity hedge positions at december 31, 2007. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. higher recent commodity prices have increased the cost of oil and gas properties available for acquisition. many of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. governmental regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that will ensure that material information relating to the company is made known to management and that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. compliance with some of these regulations is costly and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental matters and regulations. the company's operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. these laws and regulations may, among other things: &bull; require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; &bull; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits; &bull; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; &bull; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and &bull; require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. these laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, united states congress and state legislatures, federal and state agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the company's operating costs. the following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which the company's business operations are subject. waste handling. the resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the auspices of the federal environmental protection agency ("epa"), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of crude oil or gas are currently regulated under rcra's non-hazardous waste 8 provisions. however, it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. any such change could result in an increase in the company's costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. also, in the course of the company's operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, and waste oils, that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm") may also be generated in connection with the company's operations. certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of norm, which may be present in oilfield wastes. norm is not subject to regulation under the atomic energy act of 1954, or the low level radioactive waste policy act. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the occupational safety and health administration ("osha"). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. in fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the company. these properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. water discharges and use. the clean water act (the "cwa") and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act ("opa"), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. operations associated with the company's properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in underground wells. these activities are regulated by the safe drinking water act (the "sdwa") and 9 analogous state and local laws. the underground injection well program under the sdwa classifies produced wastewaters and imposes restrictions on the drilling and operation of disposal wells as well as the quality of injected wastewaters. this program is designed to protect drinking water sources and requires permits from the epa or analogous state agency for the company's disposal wells. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company's properties comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the company's ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the company's operations. the waters produced by the company's cbm operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. in a recent case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a cbm competitor in a different cbm basin in colorado, a state water court held that the use of water in cbm operations should be subject to water-use regulation under an additional agency as is the case with other uses of water in the state, including the need for the obtaining of permits, possible competition with other claimants for the use of the water and the possibility of providing mitigation water for other water users. that decision is on appeal. however, if that ruling or a similar ruling or regulation becomes applicable to the company's cbm or other oil and gas operations, the company's ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the company's cost of doing business. air emissions. the federal clean air act (the "caa") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. in addition, epa has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal caa and associated state laws and regulations. permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. in addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the caa. failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act (the "osh act") and comparable state statutes. these laws and the implementing regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osh act hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other osh act and comparable requirements. global warming and climate change. recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. in response to such studies, the u.s. congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. in addition, several states (not including texas) have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. also, as a result of the u.s. supreme court's decision on april 2, 2007 in massachusetts, et al. v. epa , the epa may be required to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources ( e.g. , cars and trucks) even if congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. other nations have already agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, pursuant to the united nations framework convention on climate change, also known as the "kyoto protocol," an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the united states) have agreed to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases to below 1990 levels by 2012. passage of climate control legislation or other 10 regulatory initiatives by congress or various states of the u.s. or the adoption of regulations by the epa and analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which the company conducts business could have an adverse effect on the company's operations and demand for oil and gas. the company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the company's current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on the company's financial condition and results of operations. for instance, the company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended december 31, 2007. additionally, the company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2008. however, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the company's operations, and the company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. moreover, the company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous departments and agencies, foreign, federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of transporting its production to market, these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. the department of homeland security appropriations act of 2007 requires the department of homeland security ("dhs") to issue regulations establishing risk-based performance standards for the security of chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities that are deemed to present "high levels of security risk." the dhs is currently in the process of adopting regulations that will determine whether some of the company's facilities or operations will be subject to additional dhs-mandated security requirements. presently, it is not possible to accurately estimate the costs the company could incur, directly or indirectly, to comply with any such facility security laws or regulations, but such expenditures could be substantial. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: &bull; the location of wells; &bull; the method of drilling and casing wells; &bull; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; &bull; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and &bull; notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively impact the economics of production from these wells and/or to limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. the interstate transportation and sale for resale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including 11 regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). the ferc's regulations for interstate gas transmission in some circumstances may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas. although gas prices are currently unregulated, congress historically has been active in the area of gas regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. sales of condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. gas gathering. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in foreign, federal and/or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by such changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk". these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer's ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are at historically high levels and are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. oil prices have recently been at historically high levels and gas prices have been at high levels over the past several years when compared to prior periods. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: &bull; domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; &bull; weather conditions; &bull; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including those in the middle east, africa and south america; &bull; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; &bull; the impact of increasing lng deliveries to the united states; &bull; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; &bull; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; &bull; the impact of energy conservation efforts; &bull; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and &bull; the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. a significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, profitability and cash flow. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below expectations, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. 12 the company's hedging activities could result in financial losses. to reduce exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, the company has entered into, and expects in the future to enter into, hedging arrangements for a portion of its oil and gas production. these hedging arrangements may expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: &bull; production is less than the hedged volumes; &bull; the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on their contract obligations; or &bull; the hedging arrangements limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: &bull; unexpected drilling conditions; &bull; pressure or irregularities in formations; &bull; equipment failures or accidents; &bull; adverse weather conditions; &bull; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and &bull; costs of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of, drilling rigs and equipment. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2008. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. if these trends continue in the future, they may impact the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to the company's estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company's estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to write-down, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties for impairments. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved assets whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of the company's proved oil and gas properties. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore require a write-down. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties, and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2007, the company carried unproved property costs of $277.5 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. 13 the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could impact its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. in addition, higher recent commodity prices have increased the cost of properties available for acquisition. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involve potential risks, including among other things: &bull; the ability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; &bull; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; &bull; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; &bull; the impact on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; &bull; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and &bull; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely impact the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment, and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2007, the company carried goodwill of $310.9 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the company's assets and liabilities. if the fair value of the company's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2007, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and ten treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and all ten treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 14 the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including: &bull; blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; &bull; adverse weather effects; &bull; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; &bull; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; &bull; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; &bull; title problems; &bull; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; &bull; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; &bull; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; &bull; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and &bull; natural disasters. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. although the company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission and processing facilities to market its oil and gas production. the marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut-in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to process, transmit and sell its oil and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission or processing facilities to the company. the nature of the company's assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations &mdash; environmental matters and regulations" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental 15 laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company's credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company's borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's outstanding debt as of december 31, 2007 and the terms associated therewith. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also impacted by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a discussion of the company's debt credit ratings. the company faces significant competition and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: &bull; seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; &bull; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and &bull; seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to operate and develop properties. many of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see "item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations" above for additional discussion regarding competition. the company's business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of key senior managers and technical personnel. the company's business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of a relatively small number of key senior managers and technical personnel. the loss of any existing key personnel, or the inability to attract, motivate and retain additional key personnel, could harm the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. the company's business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company's business and operations. see "item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations" above for additional discussion regarding government regulation. the company's international operations may be adversely affected by economic, political and other factors. at december 31, 2007, approximately three percent of the company's proved reserves were located outside the united states. the success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including: &bull; economic and labor conditions; &bull; war, terrorist acts and civil disturbances; &bull; political instability; 16 &bull; loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of actions taken by foreign countries where the company has operations, such as expropriation or nationalization of assets and renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts; &bull; changes in taxation policies (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and united states taxes on foreign subsidiaries); &bull; laws and policies of the united states and foreign jurisdictions affecting foreign investment, trade and business conduct; and &bull; changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. in some cases, the market for the company's production in foreign countries is limited to some extent. for example, all of the company's gas and condensate production from the south coast gas project in south africa is currently committed by contract to a single, government-affiliated gas-to-liquids facility. if such facility ceased to purchase the gas because of an unforeseen event excusing performance, it might be difficult to find an alternative market for the production, and if such a market were secured, the price received by the company might be less than that provided under its current gas sales contract. see "critical accounting estimates" included in "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations", "qualitative disclosures &ndash; foreign currency, operations and price risk" in "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding other risks associated with the company's international operations. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: &bull; historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; &bull; the quality and quantity of available data; &bull; the interpretation of that data; &bull; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; &bull; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and &bull; assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs. because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: &bull; the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; &bull; the production and operating costs incurred; &bull; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and &bull; future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: &bull; the amount and timing of actual production; &bull; levels of future capital spending; &bull; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil and gas; and &bull; changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 17 the company reports all proved reserves held under production sharing arrangements and concessions utilizing the "economic interest" method, which excludes the host country's share of proved reserves. estimated quantities of production sharing arrangements reported under the "economic interest" method are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. if costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. it requires the use of commodity prices, as well as operating and development costs, prevailing as of the date of computation. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely impacted. downturns in commodity prices could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical, which would also adversely impact production. the company may be unable to complete its plans to repurchase its common stock. the board of directors (the "board") approves share repurchase programs and sets limits on the price per share at which pioneer's common stock can be repurchased. from time to time, the company may not be permitted to repurchase its stock during certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading blackouts. additionally, business conditions and availability of capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or canceled. as a result, there can be no assurance that additional repurchase programs will be commenced and, if so, that they will be completed. the company may be unable to complete its plans to form a master limited partnership in the time expected, or at all, and the structure and terms of any master limited partnership could change materially from those anticipated. in april, 2007, the company announced an intention to form two new master limited partnerships, which would own interests in long-lived, low-decline oil and gas assets. although the company's subsidiary, pioneer southwest energy partners l.p. ("pioneer southwest"), has filed a preliminary registration statement (subject to completion) with the sec for an initial public offering of limited partner interests, the company announced in february 2008 that the offering had been postponed due to market conditions. in addition to market conditions, the completion of the company's plans to form the master limited partnerships is subject to numerous other risks beyond the control of the company, and therefore it is possible that one or both of the master limited partnerships will not be formed, will not complete an offering of securities, will not raise the planned amount of capital even if an offering of securities is completed, and will not be able to complete its proposed actions. furthermore, the structure, nature, purpose, proposed assets and liabilities, and proposed manner of offering of the master limited partnerships may change materially from those anticipated. in addition, the company's retained investment in any master limited partnership formed would be subject to the risks normally attendant to businesses in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, including most of the same risks to which the company is subject. the company's announcement of its plan with respect to pioneer southwest's initial public offering did not, and this report does not, constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities. any offers, solicitations of offers to buy, or any sales of securities of either master limited partnership will be made only in accordance with the registration requirements of the securities act of 1933 or an exemption therefrom. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note w of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for discussions of pioneer southwest's proposed initial public offering. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative disclosures 59 qualitative disclosures 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 3 definitions of certain terms and conventions used herein within this report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings: &bull; "bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 united states gallons. &bull; "bcf" means one billion cubic feet. &bull; "boe" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis. gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 mcf of gas to 1.0 bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. &bull; "boepd" means boe per day. &bull; "btu" means british thermal unit, which is a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree fahrenheit. &bull; "cbm" means coal bed methane. &bull; "field fuel" means gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. &bull; "gaap" means accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states of america. &bull; "libor" means london interbank offered rate, which is a market rate of interest. &bull; "lng" means liquefied natural gas. &bull; "mbbl" means one thousand bbls. &bull; "mboe" means one thousand boes. &bull; "mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume. &bull; "mmbbl" means one million bbls. &bull; "mmboe" means one million boes. &bull; "mmbtu" means one million btus. &bull; "mmcf" means one million cubic feet. &bull; "mmcfpd" means one million cubic feet per day. &bull; "ngl" means natural gas liquid. &bull; "nymex" means the new york mercantile exchange. &bull; "nyse" means the new york stock exchange. &bull; "pioneer" or the "company" means pioneer natural resources company and its subsidiaries. &bull; "proved reserves" mean the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e. , prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. the area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. in the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the "proved" classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (iii) estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as "indicated additional reserves"; (b) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. &bull; "sec" means the united states securities and exchange commission. &bull; "standardized measure" means the after-tax present value of estimated future net cash flows of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the sec, using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a ten percent discount rate. &bull; "vpp" means volumetric production payment. &bull; "u.s." means united states. &bull; with respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying "gross" wells, drilling locations and acres by the company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres. &bull; unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed in u.s. dollars. 4 part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states, south africa and tunisia. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; london, england; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2007, the company had 1,702 employees, 1,032 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. these strategies are anchored by the company's long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 89 percent of the company's proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2007. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. for the last several years the petroleum industry has generally been characterized by volatile oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during recent years, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from developing economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the middle east, nigeria, venezuela and other areas. in 2007, oil prices increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding middle east conflicts and increasing world demand for both oil and refined products. a significant increase of refinery outages led to tightness in products markets which was responsible for oil price strength throughout much of the year. north american gas prices were generally consistent throughout 2007. early 2007 price weakness, a result of a significant inventory overhang and mild weather, was largely offset by early fall when lng imports to the gulf coast were reduced. lng cargoes slated for delivery into the u.s. instead were sold into asia and europe in response to major demand increases brought on by harsh weather and large nuclear powered electric generation plant outages. significant factors that will impact 2008 commodity prices include: developments in the issues currently impacting 5 iraq and iran and the middle east in general; demand of asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") and other oil exporting nations are able to continue to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including the impact of uncertain lng deliveries to the united states. perhaps the issue having the greatest impact on prices will be the strength of the u.s. economy and the prospect of a recession. in conjunction with the relatively higher commodity prices experienced during 2007, the company also experienced increasing costs, particularly higher drilling and well servicing rig rates and drilling supplies. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company's net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity hedge contracts. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2007, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (14 percent), oneok resources (11 percent) and occidental energy marketing, inc. (11 percent). the company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. hedging activities. the company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's hedging activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk". these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer's ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are at historically high levels and are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. oil prices have recently been at historically high levels and gas prices have been at high levels over the past several years when compared to prior periods. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: &bull; domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; &bull; weather conditions; &bull; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including those in the middle east, africa and south america; &bull; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; &bull; the impact of increasing lng deliveries to the united states; &bull; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; &bull; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; &bull; the impact of energy conservation efforts; &bull; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and &bull; the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. a significant downward trend in commodity prices would have a material adverse effect on the company's revenues, profitability and cash flow. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below expectations, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. 12 the company's hedging activities could result in financial losses. to reduce exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, the company has entered into, and expects in the future to enter into, hedging arrangements for a portion of its oil and gas production. these hedging arrangements may expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: &bull; production is less than the hedged volumes; &bull; the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on their contract obligations; or &bull; the hedging arrangements limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: &bull; unexpected drilling conditions; &bull; pressure or irregularities in formations; &bull; equipment failures or accidents; &bull; adverse weather conditions; &bull; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and &bull; costs of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of, drilling rigs and equipment. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2008. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. if these trends continue in the future, they may impact the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to the company's estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company's estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to write-down, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties for impairments. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved assets whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of the company's proved oil and gas properties. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore require a write-down. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties, and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2007, the company carried unproved property costs of $277.5 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. 13 the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could impact its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. in addition, higher recent commodity prices have increased the cost of properties available for acquisition. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involve potential risks, including among other things: &bull; the ability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; &bull; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; &bull; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; &bull; the impact on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; &bull; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and &bull; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely impact the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment, and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2007, the company carried goodwill of $310.9 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the company's assets and liabilities. if the fair value of the company's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2007, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and ten treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and all ten treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 14 the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including: &bull; blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; &bull; adverse weather effects; &bull; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; &bull; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; &bull; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; &bull; title problems; &bull; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; &bull; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; &bull; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; &bull; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and &bull; natural disasters. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. although the company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission and processing facilities to market its oil and gas production. the marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut-in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to process, transmit and sell its oil and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission or processing facilities to the company. the nature of the company's assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations &mdash; environmental matters and regulations" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. the company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. nevertheless, no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental 15 laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company's credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company's borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for disclosures about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. capital budget for 2008. the company announced a 2008 capital budget of $1.0 billion, excluding acquisitions, effects of asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest and geological and geophysical administrative costs. the 2008 capital budget is significantly less than 2007 capital spending levels, excluding acquisitions, due to the completion of facilities construction for both the south coast gas project off the coast of south africa and the oooguruk project on the north slope of alaska, the sale of all canadian assets and the elimination of higher-risk exploration. approximately 90 percent of the 2008 capital budget will be focused on low-risk development drilling and resource play extensions in pioneer's four core onshore areas (spraberry, raton, edwards trend and tunisia). the remaining ten percent will be focused primarily on development drilling in the oooguruk project and barnett shale drilling. for 2008, the company currently expects that cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund the $1.0 billion capital budget. 2008 annual production. the company believes that the results from its 2007 drilling program and 2008 capital budget will allow the company to realize production growth per share during 2008 of 12 percent or more as compared to the company's 2007 production per share. first quarter 2008 outlook. based on current estimates, the company expects that first quarter 2008 production will average 103,000 to 109,000 boepd. the range reflects the typical variability in the timing of oil cargo shipments in south africa and tunisia. first quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes and transportation costs) are expected to average $11.75 to $12.75 per boe based on nymex strip prices for oil, ngls and gas at the time of the estimate. depletion, depreciation and amortization ("dd&amp;a") expense is expected to average $10.75 to $11.75 per boe. total exploration and abandonment expense for the quarter is expected to be $40 million to $70 million including (i) up to $40 million from activities in the company's resource plays in the edwards trend in south texas, the rockies area and tunisia and (ii) up to $30 million in seismic investments and personnel costs, primarily in the edwards trend and tunisia resource plays. general and administrative expense is expected to be $32 million to $36 million. interest expense is expected to be $35 million to $40 million. accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations is expected to be $2 million to $3 million. the company's first quarter effective income tax rate is expected to range from 40 percent to 45 percent based on current capital spending plans and higher tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions. cash income taxes are expected to range from $10 million to $15 million, principally related to tunisian income taxes. pioneer southwest energy partners l.p. initial public offering . on january 8, 2008, pioneer southwest energy partners l.p. ("pioneer southwest"), a subsidiary of the company, filed an amendment to its registration statement (subject to completion) with the sec to sell limited partner interests. if the offering is completed, pioneer southwest would own interests in certain oil and gas properties currently owned by the company in the spraberry field in the permian basin of west texas. pioneer southwest's registration statement contemplates an offering of 7,500,000 common units representing a 35.3 percent limited partner interest in pioneer southwest. upon completion of this offering, the company would own a 0.1 percent general partner interest and a 64.6 percent limited partner interest in pioneer southwest. the underwriters would be granted a 30-day option to purchase up to 1,125,000 additional common units. the company's limited partner interest would be reduced to 61.4 percent if the 40 underwriters exercise their over-allotment option in full. assuming an initial public offering price of $20.00 per common unit and that the underwriters exercise their over-allotment option, estimated gross proceeds from the offering would be $150 million. in february 2008, the company announced that the initial public offering of common units of pioneer southwest has been postponed due to market conditions and timing of the offering remains uncertain. there can be no assurance that pioneer southwest will complete the offering, or if completed, that the offering will be structured as described above. this report shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities of pioneer southwest. any offers, solicitations of offers to buy, or any sales of securities of pioneer southwest will be made only in accordance with the registration requirements of the securities act of 1933 or an exemption therefrom. acquisitions 2007 acquisition expenditures. during 2007, the company spent approximately $536.7 million to acquire proved and unproved properties. the acquisitions primarily added proved reserves and increased the company's acreage positions in the spraberry field, raton field and barnett shale play. 2006 acquisition expenditures. during 2006, the company spent approximately $223.2 million to acquire proved and unproved properties, which was comprised of approximately $144.8 million of proved properties and $78.3 million of unproved properties. the proved properties were primarily bolt-on and acreage acquisitions in the spraberry field and edwards trend area. in north america, the acquisition of unproved properties is comprised of acreage acquisitions in the spraberry field, edwards trend area, rockies area, alaska and canada. the company also acquired an additional interest in its jenein nord block in tunisia and recognized additional obligations associated with its nigerian prospects during 2006. 2005 acquisition expenditures. during 2005, the company spent approximately $272.9 million to acquire proved and unproved properties, which was comprised of approximately $173.4 million of proved properties and approximately $99.5 million of unproved properties. divestitures canada. in november 2007, the company sold its canadian subsidiaries for $525.7 million, resulting in a gain of $101.3 million. the historic results of these assets and the related gain on disposition are reported as discontinued operations. nigeria. in prior years, a subsidiary of the company joined other companies in a production sharing contract covering the oil prospecting license for block 320 in deepwater nigeria, gaining exploration rights from the nigerian national petroleum corporation. during the third quarter of 2007, the company disposed of all its shares in the subsidiary holding block 320. as a result of the disposition of the shares in the nigerian subsidiary, the company no longer owns any interest in block 320 and will not fund or participate in any future operations in connection with block 320. argentina and deepwater gulf of mexico. during march 2006, the company sold its interests in certain oil and gas properties in the deepwater gulf of mexico for net proceeds of $1.2 billion, resulting in a gain of $725.3 million. during april 2006, the company sold its argentine assets for net proceeds of $669.6 million, resulting in a gain of $10.9 million. the historic results of these properties and the related gains on disposition are reported as discontinued operations. volumetric production payments. during 2005, the company sold 27.8 mmboe of proved reserves in the hugoton and spraberry fields, by means of three vpps for net proceeds of $892.6 million, including the assignment of the company's obligations under certain derivative hedge agreements. the company's vpps represent limited-term overriding royalty interests in oil and gas reserves that: (i) entitle the purchaser to receive production volumes over a period of time from specific lease interests; (ii) are free and clear of all associated future production costs and capital expenditures; (iii) are nonrecourse to the company (i.e., the purchaser's only recourse is to the reserves acquired); (iv) transfers title of the reserves to the purchaser and (v) allows the company to retain the remaining reserves after the vpps volumetric quantities have been delivered. based on the scheduled production deliveries, the multiple vpps are scheduled to be completed between 2009 and 2012. 41 canada and shelf gulf of mexico. during 2005, the company sold its interests in the martin creek and conroy black areas of northeast british columbia and the lookout butte area of southern alberta for net proceeds of $197.2 million, resulting in a gain of $138.3 million. during 2005, the company also sold all of its interests in certain oil and gas properties on the gulf of mexico shelf for net proceeds of $59.2 million, resulting in a gain of $27.9 million. the historic results of these properties and the related gains on disposition are reported as discontinued operations. gabon divestiture. in 2005, the company closed the sale of the shares in a gabonese subsidiary that owns the interest in the olowi block for $47.9 million of net proceeds, resulting in a gain of $47.5 million with no associated income tax effect either in gabon or the united states. during 2007, pioneer relinquished its rights to receive additional payments for production discovered from deeper reservoirs on the block in consideration for a release of certain obligations. results of operations oil and gas revenues. oil and gas revenues totaled $1.7 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the revenue increase during 2007, as compared to 2006, was primarily reflective of increases in united states and tunisian revenues, partially offset by decreases in south african revenues. the increase in united states revenues was primarily due to an increase in average daily sales volumes resulting from successful drilling programs and reductions in scheduled volumetric production payment ("vpp") deliveries, combined with an 18 percent increase in reported ngl prices and an 18 percent increase in reported gas prices. the increase in tunisian revenues resulted from an increase in average daily sales volumes from successful drilling efforts and a 12 percent increase in average reported prices. south african revenues declined due to normal production decline rates in the sable field and the timing of oil cargo liftings, partially offset by increases in average reported oil prices and initial gas production from the south coast gas project. the revenue increase during 2006, as compared to 2005, was due to a 70 percent increase in reported oil prices and an 11 percent increase in ngl prices. partially offsetting the effects of increased oil and ngl prices was an 11 percent decrease in reported gas prices and a four percent decrease in average daily sales volumes on a boe basis. a significant factor contributing to the increases in reported oil prices and decreases in reported oil sales volumes in 2006 as compared to 2005 was the initiation of first deliveries of oil volumes under the company's vpp agreements in january 2006. vpp gas deliveries were initiated during february 2005 and declined by three percent during 2006, as compared to that of 2005. in accordance with gaap, vpp deliveries result in vpp deferred revenue amortization being recognized in oil and gas revenues with no associated sales volumes being recorded. the following table provides average daily sales volumes from continuing operations by geographic area and in total, for 2007, 2006 and 2005: year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 oil (bbls): united states 18,643 17,716 21,942 south africa 2,681 4,127 6,588 tunisia 3,845 2,386 3,477 worldwide 25,169 24,229 32,007 ngls (bbls): united states 18,553 18,488 17,403 gas (mcf): united states 316,418 284,732 271,033 south africa 2,840 &mdash; &mdash; tunisia 2,513 1,195 &mdash; worldwide 321,771 285,927 271,033 total (boe): united states 89,933 83,659 84,517 south africa 3,154 4,127 6,588 tunisia 4,264 2,585 3,477 worldwide 97,351 90,371 94,582 42 on a boe basis, average daily production for 2007, as compared to 2006, increased by seven percent in the united states and by 65 percent in tunisia, while average daily production decreased by 24 percent in south africa. average daily per boe production for 2006, as compared to 2005, decreased by one percent in the united states, by 37 percent in south africa and by 26 percent in tunisia. during the year ended december 31, 2007, oil and gas volumes delivered under the company's vpps decreased by five percent, as compared to 2006. the following table provides average daily sales volumes from discontinued operations by geographic area and in total during 2007, 2006 and 2005: year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 oil (bbls): united states &mdash; 2,400 5,280 argentina &mdash; 2,515 7,869 canada 267 311 238 worldwide 267 5,226 13,387 ngls (bbls): united states &mdash; &mdash; 65 argentina &mdash; 421 1,824 canada 371 463 615 worldwide 371 884 2,504 gas (mcf): united states &mdash; 36,038 230,171 argentina &mdash; 43,905 137,032 canada 44,645 43,434 42,916 worldwide 44,645 123,377 410,119 total (boe): united states &mdash; 8,406 43,707 argentina &mdash; 10,253 32,531 canada 8,080 8,013 8,005 worldwide 8,080 26,672 84,243 43 the following table provides average reported prices from continuing operations, including the results of hedging activities and the amortization of vpp deferred revenue, and average realized prices from continuing operations, excluding the results of hedging activities and the amortization of vpp deferred revenue, by geographic area and in total, for 2007, 2006 and 2005: year ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 average reported prices: oil (per bbl): united states $ 63.78 $ 65.73 $ 32.01 south africa $ 76.36 $ 65.92 $ 53.01 tunisia $ 70.04 $ 63.16 $ 52.98 worldwide $ 66.08 $ 65.51 $ 38.61 ngl (per bbl): united states $ 41.60 $ 35.24 $ 31.72 gas (per mcf): united states $ 7.25 $ 6.15 $ 6.94 south africa $ 6.76 $ &mdash; $ &mdash; tunisia $ 8.77 $ 5.97 $ &mdash; worldwide $ 7.26 $ 6.15 $ 6.94 total (per boe): united states $ 47.30 $ 42.64 $ 37.09 south africa $ 70.98 $ 65.92 $ 53.01 tunisia $ 68.33 $ 61.05 $ 52.98 worldwide $ 48.99 $ 44.23 $ 38.78 average realized prices: oil (per bbl): united states $ 70.26 $ 62.92 $ 54.05 south africa $ 76.72 $ 65.74 $ 53.01 tunisia $ 70.04 $ 63.16 $ 52.98 worldwide $ 70.91 $ 63.42 $ 53.72 ngl (per bbl): united states $ 41.60 $ 35.24 $ 31.72 gas (per mcf): united states $ 6.02 $ 5.96 $ 7.26 south africa $ 6.76 $ &mdash; $ &mdash; tunisia $ 8.77 $ 5.97 $ &mdash; worldwide $ 6.04 $ 5.96 $ 7.26 total (per boe): united states $ 44.31 $ 41.37 $ 43.86 south africa $ 71.29 $ 65.74 $ 53.01 tunisia $ 68.33 $ 61.05 $ 52.98 worldwide $ 46.24 $ 43.04 $ 44.84 hedging activities. the company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. during 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company's commodity price hedges decreased oil and gas revenues from continuing operations by $83.5 million, $151.2 million and $284.8 million, respectively. the effective portions of changes in the fair values of the company's commodity price hedges are deferred as increases or decreases to stockholders' equity until the underlying hedged transaction occurs. consequently, changes in the effective portions of commodity price hedges add volatility to the company's reported stockholders' equity until the hedge derivative matures or is terminated. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional disclosures about the company's commodity related derivative financial instruments. subsequent to december 31, 2007, the company entered into additional commodity swap contracts for approximately 69,945 mmbtu per day of the company's 2008 production at an average price of $7.28 per mmbtu. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 12 risk factors&rdquo; and &ldquo;item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 3 definitions of certain terms and conventions used herein within this report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings: &bull; "bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 united states gallons. &bull; "bcf" means one billion cubic feet. &bull; "boe" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis. gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 mcf of gas to 1.0 bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. &bull; "boepd" means boe per day. &bull; "btu" means british thermal unit, which is a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree fahrenheit. &bull; "cbm" means coal bed methane. &bull; "field fuel" means gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. &bull; "gaap" means accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states of america. &bull; &ldquo;ipo&rdquo; means initial public offering. &bull; "libor" means london interbank offered rate, which is a market rate of interest. &bull; "lng" means liquefied natural gas &bull; "mbbl" means one thousand bbls. &bull; "mboe" means one thousand boes. &bull; "mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume. &bull; "mmbbl" means one million bbls. &bull; "mmboe" means one million boes. &bull; "mmbtu" means one million btus. &bull; "mmcf" means one million cubic feet. &bull; "mmcfpd" means one million cubic per day &bull; "mont belvieu-posted-price" means the daily average natural gas liquids components as prices in oil price information service ("opis") in the table "u.s. and canada lp &ndash; gas weekly averages" at mont belvieu, texas. &bull; "ngl" means natural gas liquid. &bull; "nymex" means the new york mercantile exchange. &bull; "nyse" means the new york stock exchange. &bull; "pioneer" or the "company" means pioneer natural resources company and its subsidiaries. &bull; "proved reserves" means the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e. , prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. the area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. in the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the &ldquo;proved&rdquo; classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (i)(iii) estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as &ldquo;indicated additional reserves&rdquo;; (b) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. &bull; "sec" means the united states securities and exchange commission. &bull; "standardized measure" means the after-tax present value of estimated future net cash flows of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the sec, using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a ten percent discount rate. &bull; "vpp" means volumetric production payment. &bull; "u.s." means united states. &bull; with respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying "gross" wells, drilling locations and acres by the company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres. &bull; unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed in u.s. dollars. 4 part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states, south africa and tunisia. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company&rsquo;s executive offices are located at 5205 n. o&rsquo;connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company&rsquo;s telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; london, england; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2008, the company had 1,824 employees, 1,128 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the &ldquo;exchange act&rdquo;). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec&rsquo;s public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company&rsquo;s mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer&rsquo;s long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. these strategies are anchored by the company&rsquo;s long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields, which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 88 percent of the company&rsquo;s proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2008. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer&rsquo;s purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company&rsquo;s competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, worldwide financial markets experienced significant turmoil as a worldwide economic decline gained momentum and the availability of liquidity provided by the financial markets declined. the economic decline has significantly reduced worldwide energy consumption and demand for oil, ngls and gas. resulting hydrocarbon supply and demand imbalances have significantly reduced market prices for oil, ngls and gas since the record high levels that were realized in mid-2008. additionally, demand for drilling rigs and vessels, oilfield supplies, drill pipe and utilities reached record highs during 2008, affecting reserve finding costs and production costs. although those costs have begun to decline, their declines have lagged significantly behind the declines in oil, ngl and gas prices, severely constricting operating margins during the second half of 2008 and resulting in negative proved reserve price revisions at the end of 2008. 5 for the several years preceding the 2008 worldwide economic decline, the petroleum industry had generally been characterized by volatile but upward trending oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during that period, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from developing economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the middle east, nigeria, venezuela and other areas. in 2007 and the first half of 2008, oil prices increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding middle east conflicts and increasing world demand for both oil and refined products. a significant increase in refinery outages led to tightness in products markets which was responsible for oil price strength throughout much of 2007 and the early part of 2008. north american gas prices during 2008 increased during the first half of 2008 as a result of reduced inventory levels and a perceived shortage of north american gas supply and an anticipation that the united states would become a larger importer of lng, which was selling at a substantial premium to united states gas prices in the world market. however, by mid-year 2008, it became increasingly apparent that the capital investment in gas drilling and discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays would be more than sufficient to meet the unites states demand. coupled with the economic downturn experienced in the second half of 2008, the increased supply of gas resulted in a sharp decline in north american gas prices. significant factors that will impact 2009 commodity prices include: the impact of economic stimulus initiatives being implemented in the united states and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic decline; developments in the issues currently impacting the middle east in general; demand of asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries (&ldquo;opec&rdquo;) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including the impact of increasing lng deliveries to the united states. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company&rsquo;s net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity derivative contracts. see &ldquo;item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo; for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2008, 2007 and 2006 from the company&rsquo;s derivative price risk management activities and the company&rsquo;s open derivative positions at december 31, 2008. the company. the company&rsquo;s asset base is anchored by the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the hugoton gas field located in southwest kansas and the west panhandle gas field located in the texas panhandle. complementing these areas, the company has exploration and development opportunities and/or oil and gas production activities in the edwards trend area of south texas, the barnett shale area of north texas and alaska, and internationally in south africa and tunisia. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, ngls and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production, lower-risk exploration and development opportunities and a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. additionally, the company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to united states and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. production operations are principally located domestically in texas, kansas, colorado, alaska, and the gulf of mexico shelf, and internationally in south africa and tunisia. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. during the year ended december 31, 2008, the company&rsquo;s average daily production, on a boe basis, increased 17 percent as a result of successful drilling programs in the united states and tunisia and a 12 percent decrease in the delivery of vpp volumes. production, price and cost information with respect to the company&rsquo;s properties for 2008, 2007 and 2006 is set forth under &ldquo;item 2. properties &mdash; selected oil and gas information &mdash; production, price and cost data.&rdquo; development activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2008, the company drilled 1,831 gross (1,740 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company&rsquo;s interest) of $3.1 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company&rsquo;s proved reserves as of december 31, 2008 include proved 6 undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 246 mmbbls of oil and ngls and 1,064 bcf of gas. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company&rsquo;s expected operating cash flows and financial condition. as a result of the significant drop in commodity prices, the company has implemented initiatives to reduce capital spending and operating costs in 2009 and to enhance financial flexibility. this plan includes minimizing drilling activities until margins improve as a result of (i) increased commodity prices, (ii) reduced gas price differentials relative to nymex quoted prices in the areas where the company produces gas and/or (iii) decreased well costs. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities complemented by a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors &mdash; drilling activities&rdquo; below. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2008, 2007 and 2006, the company invested $137.6 million, $536.7 million and $223.2 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo; for a description of the company&rsquo;s acquisitions of proved oil and gas properties during 2008, 2007 and 2006. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence, the submission of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of a letter of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and will depend on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company&rsquo;s control. see &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors &mdash; acquisitions.&rdquo; asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company&rsquo;s objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. see notes n, t and v of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo; for specific information regarding the company&rsquo;s asset divestitures and discontinued operations during 2008, 2007 and 2006. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. operations by geographic area the company operates in one industry segment, that being oil and gas exploration and production. see note r of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo; for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets. marketing of production general. production from the company&rsquo;s properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as the index or spot price for gas or the spot price for oil, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, well pressure, estimated reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions. see 7 &ldquo;qualitative disclosures&rdquo; in &ldquo;item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2008, the company&rsquo;s significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (13 percent), enterprise products partners l.p. (10 percent), occidental energy marketing, inc. (9 percent) and oneok resources (6 percent). the company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. derivative risk management activities. the company from time to time utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company&rsquo;s annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. as of january 31, 2009, the company began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market method of accounting. see &ldquo;item 7. management&rsquo;s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo; for a description of the company&rsquo;s derivative risk management activities, &ldquo;item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; and notes j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo; for information concerning the impact on oil and gas revenues during 2008, 2007 and 2006 from commodity hedging activities and the company&rsquo;s open and terminated commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2008. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company&rsquo;s growth. the company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. many of the company&rsquo;s competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company&rsquo;s ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company&rsquo;s control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. governmental regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that will ensure that material information relating to the company is made known to management and that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. compliance with some of these regulations is costly and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental matters and regulations. the company&rsquo;s operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. these laws and regulations may, among other things: &bull; require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; &bull; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits; &bull; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; &bull; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and &bull; require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. 8 these laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, the united states congress and state legislatures, federal and state agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the company&rsquo;s operating costs. the following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which the company&rsquo;s business operations are subject. waste handling. the resource conservation and recovery act (&ldquo;rcra&rdquo;) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the auspices of the federal environmental protection agency (&ldquo;epa&rdquo;), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of crude oil or gas are currently regulated under rcra&rsquo;s non-hazardous waste provisions. however, it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. any such change could result in an increase in the company&rsquo;s costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s results of operations and financial position. also, in the course of the company&rsquo;s operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials (&ldquo;norm&rdquo;) may also be generated in connection with the company&rsquo;s operations. certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of norm, which may be present in oilfield wastes. norm is not subject to regulation under the atomic energy act of 1954, or the low level radioactive waste policy act. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the occupational safety and health administration (&ldquo;osha&rdquo;). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (&ldquo;cercla&rdquo;), also known as the superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. in addition, some of the company&rsquo;s properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons were not under the company&rsquo;s control. in fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the company. these properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. water discharges and use. the clean water act (the &ldquo;cwa&rdquo;) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in 9 accordance with the terms of a permit issued by epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act (&ldquo;opa&rdquo;), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. operations associated with the company&rsquo;s properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in underground wells. these activities are regulated by the safe drinking water act (the &ldquo;sdwa&rdquo;) and analogous state and local laws. the underground injection well program under the sdwa classifies produced wastewaters and imposes restrictions on the drilling and operation of disposal wells as well as the quality of injected wastewaters. this program is designed to protect drinking water sources and requires permits from the epa or analogous state agency for the company&rsquo;s disposal wells. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company&rsquo;s properties comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the company&rsquo;s ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the company&rsquo;s operations. the waters produced by the company&rsquo;s cbm operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company&rsquo;s cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. in a recent case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a cbm competitor in a different cbm basin in colorado, a state water court held that the use of water in cbm operations should be subject to water-use regulation under an additional agency as is the case with other uses of water in the state, including the need for the obtaining of permits, possible competition with other claimants for the use of the water and the possibility of providing mitigation water for other water users. that decision is on appeal. however, if that ruling or a similar ruling or regulation becomes applicable to the company&rsquo;s cbm or other oil and gas operations, the company&rsquo;s ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the company&rsquo;s cost of doing business. air emissions. the federal clean air act (the &ldquo;caa&rdquo;) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. in addition, epa has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal caa and associated state laws and regulations. permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. in addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the caa. failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. health and safety. the company&rsquo;s operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act (the &ldquo;osh act&rdquo;) and comparable state statutes. these laws and the implementing regulations 10 strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osh act hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company&rsquo;s operations. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other osh act and comparable requirements. global warming and climate change. recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as &ldquo;greenhouse gases&rdquo; and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth&rsquo;s atmosphere. in response to such studies, the u.s. congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. in addition, several states (not including texas) have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. also, as a result of the u.s. supreme court&rsquo;s decision on april 2, 2007 in massachusetts, et al. v. epa , the epa may be required to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources ( e.g. , cars and trucks) even if congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. other nations have already agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, pursuant to the united nations framework convention on climate change, also known as the &ldquo;kyoto protocol,&rdquo; an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the united states) have agreed to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases to below 1990 levels by 2012. passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by congress or various states of the u.s. or the adoption of regulations by the epa and analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which the company conducts business could have an adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s operations and demand for oil and gas. the company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the company&rsquo;s current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on the company&rsquo;s financial condition and results of operations. for instance, the company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended december 31, 2008. additionally, the company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2009. however, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the company&rsquo;s operations, and the company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. moreover, the company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative impact on the company&rsquo;s business, financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous departments and agencies, foreign, federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company&rsquo;s cost of doing business by increasing the cost of transporting its production to market, these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. for example, the company&rsquo;s properties located in colorado are subject to the authority of the colorado oil &amp; gas conservation commission (the &ldquo;cogcc&rdquo;). the cogcc has recently promulgated new rules that are likely to increase the company&rsquo;s costs of permitting and environmental compliance, and to extend waiting periods for the acquisition of permits. these rules are to be considered by the colorado legislature in its 2009 legislative session, and are expected to begin applicability in early april. the department of homeland security appropriations act of 2007 requires the department of homeland security (&ldquo;dhs&rdquo;) to issue regulations establishing risk-based performance standards for the security of chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities that are deemed to present &ldquo;high levels of security risk.&rdquo; the dhs is currently in the process of adopting regulations that will determine whether some of the company&rsquo;s facilities or operations will be subject to additional dhs-mandated security requirements. presently, it is not possible to accurately estimate the costs the company could incur, directly or indirectly, to comply with any such facility security laws or regulations, but such expenditures could be substantial. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: &bull; the location of wells; 11 &bull; the method of drilling and casing wells; &bull; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; &bull; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and &bull; notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company&rsquo;s interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company&rsquo;s wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company&rsquo;s wells, negatively impact the economics of production from these wells and/or to limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. the interstate transportation and sale for resale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission (&ldquo;ferc&rdquo;). the ferc&rsquo;s regulations for interstate gas transmission in some circumstances may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas. although gas prices are currently unregulated, congress historically has been active in the area of gas regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company&rsquo;s operations. sales of condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. gas gathering. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in foreign, federal and/or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by such changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company&rsquo;s business activities. other risks are described in &ldquo;item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations&rdquo; and &ldquo;item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.&rdquo; these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company&rsquo;s business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the company&rsquo;s business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer&rsquo;s ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company&rsquo;s common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company&rsquo;s financial condition and results of operations. the company&rsquo;s revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: &bull; domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; &bull; weather conditions; 12 &bull; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; &bull; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; &bull; the impact of increasing lng deliveries to the united states; &bull; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; &bull; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; &bull; the impact of energy conservation efforts; &bull; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and &bull; the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, oil prices declined in 2008 from record levels in july of $145.29 per barrel to $33.87 per barrel in december, while gas prices declined from $13.58 per mcf to $5.29 per mcf over the same period. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company&rsquo;s cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company&rsquo;s financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively impact the company&rsquo;s ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company&rsquo;s derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce the company&rsquo;s exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company&rsquo;s strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment and the changes in fair market value of the contracts will be reported in the company&rsquo;s statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: &bull; production is less than the hedged volumes, &bull; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on their contract obligations, or &bull; the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices expose the company to reduced revenue and liquidity when prices decline, as occurred in late 2008. the failure by counterparties to the company&rsquo;s derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s results of operations. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce the company&rsquo;s exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company&rsquo;s strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company&rsquo;s derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material, adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company&rsquo;s future production being subject to commodity price changes. in addition, in light of the current economic outlook, it is possible that fewer counterparties will participate in derivative transactions, which could result in a greater concentration of the company&rsquo;s exposure to any one counterparty, or a larger percentage of the company&rsquo;s future production could be subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: 13 &bull; unexpected drilling conditions; &bull; pressure or irregularities in formations; &bull; equipment failures or accidents; &bull; adverse weather conditions; &bull; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and &bull; costs of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of, drilling rigs and equipment. the company&rsquo;s future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2009. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. although the company has experienced some decrease in these costs over the past several months, such decreases could be short-lived. a return to the trends of increasing demand and costs in the future may impact the company&rsquo;s profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company&rsquo;s proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company&rsquo;s results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to the company&rsquo;s estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company&rsquo;s estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company&rsquo;s oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company&rsquo;s oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge will be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. for example, during 2008, the company recognized impairment charges of $104.3 million due to the impairment of the company&rsquo;s net assets in the uinta/piceance and mississippi areas, primarily due to declines in gas prices. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company&rsquo;s results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties, and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2008, the company carried unproved property costs of $204.2 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could impact its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company&rsquo;s growth. the company&rsquo;s growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: &bull; the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; &bull; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; &bull; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; &bull; the impact on the company&rsquo;s liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; 14 &bull; the diversion of management&rsquo;s attention from other business concerns; and &bull; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company&rsquo;s growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company&rsquo;s initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely impact the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the current economic crisis has affected the level of sales activity for oil and gas properties. the lack of credit has limited third parties&rsquo; ability to acquire properties, and the potential value of the company&rsquo;s properties is likely to decline if adverse economic conditions continue. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment, and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2008, the company carried goodwill of $310.6 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit&rsquo;s assets and liabilities. accordingly, the company assessed its goodwill for impairment on july 1, 2008 and determined that goodwill was not impaired. however, as a result of declines in commodity prices and a significant decline in the company&rsquo;s market capitalization during the second half of 2008, the company reassessed as of december 31, 2008 whether the fair value of its net assets supported the carrying value of the company&rsquo;s goodwill at its united states reporting unit. although the company&rsquo;s assessment indicated that its goodwill was not impaired as of december 31, 2008, the continuation of commodity price declines during the first quarter of 2009 provides an indication that goodwill may be at risk of future impairment. the company will continue to assess its goodwill for impairment and such assessments may be affected by (a) future reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) changes in management&rsquo;s outlook on commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company&rsquo;s market capitalization, (e) changes in the company&rsquo;s weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit&rsquo;s net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company&rsquo;s gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2008, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and thirteen treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and twelve of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. the company&rsquo;s operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company&rsquo;s operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. 15 the company&rsquo;s operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: &bull; blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; &bull; adverse weather effects; &bull; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; &bull; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; &bull; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; &bull; title problems; &bull; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; &bull; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; &bull; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; &bull; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and &bull; natural disasters. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. for example, damage caused by hurricanes gustav and ike to a third-party facility that fractionates ngls from a portion of the company&rsquo;s production resulted in a portion of the company&rsquo;s production being shut in or curtailed from early september to mid-november 2008 while repairs and maintenance to the facility were being completed. the company&rsquo;s expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company&rsquo;s future drilling plans. the company&rsquo;s ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company&rsquo;s expectations for success. as such, the company&rsquo;s actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company&rsquo;s current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market its oil and gas production. the marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company&rsquo;s production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell its oil and gas production. the company&rsquo;s plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission, storage or processing facilities to the company. the nature of the company&rsquo;s assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. 16 the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company&rsquo;s operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see &ldquo;item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations &mdash; environmental matters and regulations&rdquo; above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company&rsquo;s future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company&rsquo;s credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company&rsquo;s borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company&rsquo;s ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company&rsquo;s direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo; for information regarding the company&rsquo;s outstanding debt as of december 31, 2008 and the terms associated therewith. the company&rsquo;s ability to obtain additional financing is also impacted by the company&rsquo;s debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. see &ldquo;item 7. management&rsquo;s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo; for a discussion of the company&rsquo;s debt credit ratings. the company faces significant competition and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the company&rsquo;s available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: &bull; seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; &bull; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and &bull; seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to operate and develop properties. many of the company&rsquo;s competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see &ldquo;item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations&rdquo; for additional discussion regarding competition. the company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. the company&rsquo;s business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company&rsquo;s business and operations. see &ldquo;item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations&rdquo; for additional discussion regarding government regulation. the company&rsquo;s international operations may be adversely affected by economic, political and other factors. at december 31, 2008, approximately three percent of the company&rsquo;s proved reserves were located outside the united states. the success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including: &bull; economic and labor conditions; 17 &bull; war, terrorist acts and civil disturbances; &bull; political instability; &bull; loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of actions taken by foreign countries where the company has operations, such as expropriation or nationalization of assets and renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts; &bull; changes in taxation policies (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and united states taxes on foreign subsidiaries); &bull; laws and policies of the united states and foreign jurisdictions affecting foreign investment, trade and business conduct; and &bull; changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. in some cases, the market for the company&rsquo;s production in foreign countries is limited to some extent. for example, all of the company&rsquo;s gas and condensate production from the south coast gas project in south africa is currently committed by contract to a single, government-affiliated gas-to-liquids facility. if such facility ceased to purchase the gas because of an unforeseen event, it might be difficult to find an alternative market for the production, and if such a market were secured, the price received by the company might be less than that provided under its current gas sales contract. see &ldquo;critical accounting estimates&rdquo; included in &ldquo;item 7. management&rsquo;s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,&rdquo; &ldquo;qualitative disclosures &ndash; foreign currency, operations and price risk&rdquo; in &ldquo;item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo; for information regarding other risks associated with the company&rsquo;s international operations. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company&rsquo;s proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: &bull; historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, &bull; the quality and quantity of available data, &bull; the interpretation of that data, &bull; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies, &bull; assumptions concerning future commodity prices and &bull; assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs. because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: &bull; the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, &bull; the production and operating costs incurred, &bull; the amount and timing of future development expenditures and &bull; future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company&rsquo;s actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: &bull; the amount and timing of actual production; &bull; levels of future capital spending; 18 &bull; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil and gas; and &bull; changes in governmental regulations or taxation. the company reports all proved reserves held under production sharing arrangements and concessions utilizing the &ldquo;economic interest&rdquo; method, which excludes the host country&rsquo;s share of proved reserves. estimated quantities of production sharing arrangements reported under the &ldquo;economic interest&rdquo; method are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. if costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. it requires the use of commodity prices, as well as operating and development costs, prevailing as of the date of computation. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company&rsquo;s proved reserves. the company&rsquo;s actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely impacted. downturns in commodity prices could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical, which would also adversely impact production. the company may be unable to complete its plans to repurchase its common stock. the board of directors (the &ldquo;board&rdquo;) approves share repurchase programs and sets limits on the price per share at which pioneer&rsquo;s common stock can be repurchased. from time to time, the company may not be permitted to repurchase its stock during certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading blackouts. additionally, business conditions and availability of capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or canceled. as a result, there can be no assurance that additional repurchase programs will be commenced and, if so, that they will be completed. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of a publicly-traded limited partnership. as such, the subsidiary &rsquo; operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of pioneer southwest energy partners l.p., a publicly-traded limited partnership formed by the company to own and acquire oil and gas assets in its area of operations. as general partner, the subsidiary may be deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations to the partnership. activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to others typically involve a higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interest is found to exist. any such liability may be material. a failure by purchasers of the company&rsquo;s production to perform their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s results of operation. recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit, and equity values have substantially declined. to the extent that purchasers of the company&rsquo;s production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company&rsquo;s production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. 19 the company may not be able to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under its current credit facility because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent the company from meeting its future capital needs. global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. the debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. these issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. in addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers. as a result, the company may be unable to obtain adequate funding under its current credit facility because (i) the company&rsquo;s lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount the company may borrow under its current credit facility could be reduced as a result of lower oil, ngl or gas prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements or regulations, or for other reasons. for example, the company&rsquo;s credit facility requires that the company maintain a specified ratio of the net present value of the company&rsquo;s oil and gas properties to total debt, with the variables on which the calculation of net present value is based (including assumed commodity prices and discount rates) being subject to adjustment by the lenders. due to these factors, the company cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the company may be unable to implement its business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s production, revenues and results of operations. declining general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse affect on the company&rsquo;s results of operations. recently, concerns over a worldwide economic downturn, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the u.s. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the united states have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. these factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a worldwide recession. concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices, both of which have contributed to a decline in the company&rsquo;s share price and corresponding market capitalization. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad continues to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could further diminish, which could further depress the prices at which the company can sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company&rsquo;s net revenue and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative disclosures 62 qualitative disclosures 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 3 definitions of certain terms and conventions used herein within this report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings: &bull; "bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 united states gallons. &bull; "bcf" means one billion cubic feet. &bull; "boe" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis. gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 mcf of gas to 1.0 bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. &bull; "boepd" means boe per day. &bull; "btu" means british thermal unit, which is a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree fahrenheit. &bull; "cbm" means coal bed methane. &bull; "field fuel" means gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. &bull; "gaap" means accounting principles that are generally accepted in the united states of america. &bull; &ldquo;ipo&rdquo; means initial public offering. &bull; "libor" means london interbank offered rate, which is a market rate of interest. &bull; "lng" means liquefied natural gas &bull; "mbbl" means one thousand bbls. &bull; "mboe" means one thousand boes. &bull; "mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume. &bull; "mmbbl" means one million bbls. &bull; "mmboe" means one million boes. &bull; "mmbtu" means one million btus. &bull; "mmcf" means one million cubic feet. &bull; "mmcfpd" means one million cubic per day &bull; "mont belvieu-posted-price" means the daily average natural gas liquids components as prices in oil price information service ("opis") in the table "u.s. and canada lp &ndash; gas weekly averages" at mont belvieu, texas. &bull; "ngl" means natural gas liquid. &bull; "nymex" means the new york mercantile exchange. &bull; "nyse" means the new york stock exchange. &bull; "pioneer" or the "company" means pioneer natural resources company and its subsidiaries. &bull; "proved reserves" means the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e. , prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. the area of a reservoir considered proved includes (a) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (b) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. in the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the &ldquo;proved&rdquo; classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (i)(iii) estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (a) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as &ldquo;indicated additional reserves&rdquo;; (b) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics or economic factors; (c) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (d) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. &bull; "sec" means the united states securities and exchange commission. &bull; "standardized measure" means the after-tax present value of estimated future net cash flows of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the sec, using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a ten percent discount rate. &bull; "vpp" means volumetric production payment. &bull; "u.s." means united states. &bull; with respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying "gross" wells, drilling locations and acres by the company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres. &bull; unless otherwise indicated, all currency amounts are expressed in u.s. dollars. 4 part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states, south africa and tunisia. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company&rsquo;s executive offices are located at 5205 n. o&rsquo;connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company&rsquo;s telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; london, england; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2008, the company had 1,824 employees, 1,128 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the &ldquo;exchange act&rdquo;). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec&rsquo;s public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company&rsquo;s mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer&rsquo;s long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. these strategies are anchored by the company&rsquo;s long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields, which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 88 percent of the company&rsquo;s proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2008. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer&rsquo;s purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company&rsquo;s competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, worldwide financial markets experienced significant turmoil as a worldwide economic decline gained momentum and the availability of liquidity provided by the financial markets declined. the economic decline has significantly reduced worldwide energy consumption and demand for oil, ngls and gas. resulting hydrocarbon supply and demand imbalances have significantly reduced market prices for oil, ngls and gas since the record high levels that were realized in mid-2008. additionally, demand for drilling rigs and vessels, oilfield supplies, drill pipe and utilities reached record highs during 2008, affecting reserve finding costs and production costs. although those costs have begun to decline, their declines have lagged significantly behind the declines in oil, ngl and gas prices, severely constricting operating margins during the second half of 2008 and resulting in negative proved reserve price revisions at the end of 2008. 5 for the several years preceding the 2008 worldwide economic decline, the petroleum industry had generally been characterized by volatile but upward trending oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during that period, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from developing economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the middle east, nigeria, venezuela and other areas. in 2007 and the first half of 2008, oil prices increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding middle east conflicts and increasing world demand for both oil and refined products. a significant increase in refinery outages led to tightness in products markets which was responsible for oil price strength throughout much of 2007 and the early part of 2008. north american gas prices during 2008 increased during the first half of 2008 as a result of reduced inventory levels and a perceived shortage of north american gas supply and an anticipation that the united states would become a larger importer of lng, which was selling at a substantial premium to united states gas prices in the world market. however, by mid-year 2008, it became increasingly apparent that the capital investment in gas drilling and discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays would be more than sufficient to meet the unites states demand. coupled with the economic downturn experienced in the second half of 2008, the increased supply of gas resulted in a sharp decline in north american gas prices. significant factors that will impact 2009 commodity prices include: the impact of economic stimulus initiatives being implemented in the united states and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic decline; developments in the issues currently impacting the middle east in general; demand of asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries (&ldquo;opec&rdquo;) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including the impact of increasing lng deliveries to the united states. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company&rsquo;s net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity derivative contracts. see &ldquo;item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo; quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2008, the company&rsquo;s significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (13 percent), enterprise products partners l.p. (10 percent), occidental energy marketing, inc. (9 percent) and oneok resources (6 percent). the company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. derivative risk management activities. the company from time to time utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company&rsquo;s annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. as of january 31, 2009, the company began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market method of accounting. see &ldquo;item 7. management&rsquo;s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo; for a description of the company&rsquo;s derivative risk management activities, &ldquo;item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; and notes j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo; quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.&rdquo; these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company&rsquo;s business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm the company&rsquo;s business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer&rsquo;s ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company&rsquo;s common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company&rsquo;s financial condition and results of operations. the company&rsquo;s revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: &bull; domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; &bull; weather conditions; 12 &bull; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; &bull; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; &bull; the impact of increasing lng deliveries to the united states; &bull; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; &bull; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; &bull; the impact of energy conservation efforts; &bull; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and &bull; the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, oil prices declined in 2008 from record levels in july of $145.29 per barrel to $33.87 per barrel in december, while gas prices declined from $13.58 per mcf to $5.29 per mcf over the same period. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company&rsquo;s cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company&rsquo;s financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively impact the company&rsquo;s ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company&rsquo;s derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce the company&rsquo;s exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company&rsquo;s strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment and the changes in fair market value of the contracts will be reported in the company&rsquo;s statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: &bull; production is less than the hedged volumes, &bull; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on their contract obligations, or &bull; the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices expose the company to reduced revenue and liquidity when prices decline, as occurred in late 2008. the failure by counterparties to the company&rsquo;s derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s results of operations. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce the company&rsquo;s exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company&rsquo;s strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company&rsquo;s derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material, adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company&rsquo;s future production being subject to commodity price changes. in addition, in light of the current economic outlook, it is possible that fewer counterparties will participate in derivative transactions, which could result in a greater concentration of the company&rsquo;s exposure to any one counterparty, or a larger percentage of the company&rsquo;s future production could be subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: 13 &bull; unexpected drilling conditions; &bull; pressure or irregularities in formations; &bull; equipment failures or accidents; &bull; adverse weather conditions; &bull; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and &bull; costs of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of, drilling rigs and equipment. the company&rsquo;s future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2009. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. although the company has experienced some decrease in these costs over the past several months, such decreases could be short-lived. a return to the trends of increasing demand and costs in the future may impact the company&rsquo;s profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company&rsquo;s proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company&rsquo;s results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to the company&rsquo;s estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company&rsquo;s estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company&rsquo;s oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company&rsquo;s oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge will be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. for example, during 2008, the company recognized impairment charges of $104.3 million due to the impairment of the company&rsquo;s net assets in the uinta/piceance and mississippi areas, primarily due to declines in gas prices. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company&rsquo;s results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties, and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2008, the company carried unproved property costs of $204.2 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could impact its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company&rsquo;s growth. the company&rsquo;s growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: &bull; the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; &bull; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; &bull; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; &bull; the impact on the company&rsquo;s liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; 14 &bull; the diversion of management&rsquo;s attention from other business concerns; and &bull; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company&rsquo;s growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company&rsquo;s initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely impact the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the current economic crisis has affected the level of sales activity for oil and gas properties. the lack of credit has limited third parties&rsquo; ability to acquire properties, and the potential value of the company&rsquo;s properties is likely to decline if adverse economic conditions continue. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment, and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2008, the company carried goodwill of $310.6 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit&rsquo;s assets and liabilities. accordingly, the company assessed its goodwill for impairment on july 1, 2008 and determined that goodwill was not impaired. however, as a result of declines in commodity prices and a significant decline in the company&rsquo;s market capitalization during the second half of 2008, the company reassessed as of december 31, 2008 whether the fair value of its net assets supported the carrying value of the company&rsquo;s goodwill at its united states reporting unit. although the company&rsquo;s assessment indicated that its goodwill was not impaired as of december 31, 2008, the continuation of commodity price declines during the first quarter of 2009 provides an indication that goodwill may be at risk of future impairment. the company will continue to assess its goodwill for impairment and such assessments may be affected by (a) future reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) changes in management&rsquo;s outlook on commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company&rsquo;s market capitalization, (e) changes in the company&rsquo;s weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit&rsquo;s net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company&rsquo;s gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2008, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and thirteen treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and twelve of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. the company&rsquo;s operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company&rsquo;s operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. 15 the company&rsquo;s operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: &bull; blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; &bull; adverse weather effects; &bull; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; &bull; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; &bull; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; &bull; title problems; &bull; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; &bull; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; &bull; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; &bull; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and &bull; natural disasters. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. for example, damage caused by hurricanes gustav and ike to a third-party facility that fractionates ngls from a portion of the company&rsquo;s production resulted in a portion of the company&rsquo;s production being shut in or curtailed from early september to mid-november 2008 while repairs and maintenance to the facility were being completed. the company&rsquo;s expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company&rsquo;s future drilling plans. the company&rsquo;s ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company&rsquo;s expectations for success. as such, the company&rsquo;s actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company&rsquo;s current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market its oil and gas production. the marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company&rsquo;s production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell its oil and gas production. the company&rsquo;s plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission, storage or processing facilities to the company. the nature of the company&rsquo;s assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. 16 the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company&rsquo;s operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see &ldquo;item 1. business &mdash; competition, markets and regulations &mdash; environmental matters and regulations&rdquo; above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company&rsquo;s future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company&rsquo;s credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company&rsquo;s borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company&rsquo;s ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company&rsquo;s direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo; quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo; quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; for additional disclosures about the company&rsquo;s commodity related derivative financial instruments. deferred revenue. during 2008, 2007 and 2006, the company&rsquo;s recognition of previously deferred vpp revenue increased oil and gas revenues from continuing operations by $158.1 million, $181.2 million and $190.3 million, respectively. the company&rsquo;s amortization of deferred vpp revenue is scheduled to increase 2009 oil and gas revenues by $147.9 million. see note t of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo; quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations and note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo; quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk&rdquo; and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo; quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. the fair value of the company&rsquo;s derivative contracts is determined based on counterparties&rsquo; estimates and valuation models. the company did not change its valuation method during 2008. during 2008, the company was a party to commodity, interest rate and foreign exchange rate swap contracts and commodity collar contracts. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in &ldquo;risk factors 16 risk factors," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a delaware corporation formed in 1997. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado and midland, texas. at december 31, 2012 , the company had 3,667 employees, 2,484 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford shale, barnett shale combo, hugoton and west panhandle fields; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are 94 percent of the company's proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2012 . business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. while oil and ngl prices generally improved from 2009 through 2011, during 2012, oil and ngl production growth in the united states outpaced demand growth causing prices to become more volatile and decline during the year. north american gas prices have remained volatile and have generally trended lower since 2009. the decline in north american gas prices is primarily a result of growing gas supplies associated with discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal recent winters, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the united states. oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals; however, recent increases in united states oil, ngl and gas production volumes from the permian basin, eagle ford, bakken and marcellus areas have been met with lower demand, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations, which has led to a reduction in united states nymex oil, ngl and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including brent oil prices. 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company during 2010, 2011 and 2012, the economies in the united states and certain other countries stabilized with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. while the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery remains cautiously optimistic, it is still uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2013. significant factors that will affect 2013 commodity prices include: the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american ngl and gas supply and demand fundamentals. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's open derivative positions as of december 31, 2012 . the company. the company's growth plan is anchored primarily by drilling in the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the liquid-rich eagle ford shale field located in south texas, the liquid-rich barnett shale combo field in north texas and, to a lesser extent, alaska. complementing these growth areas, the company has oil and gas production activities and development opportunities in the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the hugoton gas and liquid field located in southwest kansas, the west panhandle gas and liquid field located in the texas panhandle and the edwards gas field located in south texas. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, ngl and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. the company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the company believes are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. the company's continuing operations are located in the united states, principally in the states of texas, kansas, colorado and alaska. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2012 , the company's production from continuing operations of 56.9 mmboe, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 29 percent increase over production from continuing operations during 2011 . production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 is set forth in "item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data." development activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2012 , the company drilled 1,844 gross (1,655 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $4.0 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2012 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 271.4 mmbbls of oil, 103.0 mmbbls of ngls and 714.6 bcf of gas. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1a. risk factors exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below. integrated services. the company continues to expand its integrated services to control drilling and operating costs and support the execution of its drilling program and operating activities. the company has 15 owned vertical drilling rigs operating in the spraberry field, and at the end of 2012 , had company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling 300,000 horsepower supporting drilling operations in the spraberry, eagle ford shale and barnett shale combo areas. during april 2012, the company acquired 100 percent of the share capital of industrial sands holding company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, oglebay norton industry sands, llc, for an aggregate purchase price of $297.1 million . the company changed the name of the oglebay norton industrial sands llc to premier silica llc ("premier silica") in april 2012. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about the acquisition of premier silica. the company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , the company spent $157.5 million , $131.9 million and $181.6 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. see "item 1a. risk factors the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business." asset divestitures and discontinued operations. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. in january 2013, the company signed an agreement with sinochem petroleum usa llc ("sinochem"), a u.s. subsidiary of the sinochem group, an unaffiliated third party, to sell 40 percent of pioneer's interest in 207,000 net acres leased by the company in the horizontal wolfcamp shale play in the southern portion of the spraberry field for consideration of $1.7 billion. at closing, sinochem will pay $522.0 million in cash to pioneer, before normal closing adjustments, and will pay the remaining $1.2 billion by carrying 75 percent of pioneer's portion of future drilling and facilities costs attributable to the horizontal wolfcamp shale play. this transaction is expected to close during the second quarter of 2013, subject to governmental and third party approvals. during december 2011, the company committed to a plan to exit south africa and initiated a process to divest its net assets in south africa ("pioneer south africa"). during the first quarter of 2012, the company agreed to sell pioneer south africa to an unaffiliated third party, effective january 1, 2012, for $60.0 million of cash proceeds before normal closing and other adjustments, and the buyer's assumption of certain liabilities of the company's south africa subsidiaries. in august 2012, the company completed the sale of pioneer south africa for net cash proceeds of $15.9 million, including normal closing adjustments for cash revenues and costs and expenses from the effective date through the date of the sale, resulting in a pretax gain of $28.6 million. the company classified (i) pioneer south africa's assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2011 and (ii) pioneer south africa's results of operations as income from discontinued operations, net of tax, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. in february 2011, the company sold 100 percent of the company's share holdings in pioneer natural resources tunisia ltd. and pioneer natural resources anaguid ltd. (referred to in the aggregate as "pioneer tunisia") to an unaffiliated third party for cash proceeds of $802.5 million, excluding cash and cash equivalents sold, resulting in a pretax gain of $645.2 million. accordingly, the company has classified the results of operations of pioneer tunisia, prior to its sale, as discontinued operations, net of tax, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's asset divestitures and discontinued operations, including the 2011 sale of pioneer tunisia and 2012 sale of pioneer south africa. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2012, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp ( 26 percent ), enterprise products partners l.p. ( 15 percent ) and occidental energy marketing inc. ( 14 percent ). the company believes that the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about significant customer and infrastructure capacity risks. derivative risk management activities. the company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. the company also utilizes commodity swap contracts to reduce price volatility on the fuel that the company's drilling rigs and fracture stimulation fleets consume. the company accounts for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ("mtm") method of accounting. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's derivative risk management activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk," and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , as well as the company's open commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2012 . competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. many of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the company's common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, worker health and safety, and the discharge of materials into the environment. these laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling or other regulated activity commences; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in noncompliance with permits; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; impose specific criteria addressing worker protection; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. these laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, the u.s. congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant effect on the company's operating costs. the company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the company's current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. for example, the company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended december 31, 2012. additionally, the company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2013. nevertheless, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the company's operations, and the company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. moreover, the company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the following is a summary of some of the more significant laws and regulations to which the company's business operations are or may be subject. waste handling. the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the auspices of the federal environmental protection agency (the "epa"), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under rcra's non-hazardous waste provisions. it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. any such change could result in an increase in the company's costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. also, in the course of the company's operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm") may also be generated in connection with the company's operations. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the occupational safety and health administration ("osha"). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act. the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for recycling or disposal. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. certain of these properties have had historical petroleum spills or releases. all of such properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. if a surface spill or release were to occur, the company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of state oil and gas commissions and by using the company's spill prevention, control and countermeasure ("spcc") plans or other spill or emergency contingency plans that it maintains in accordance with epa requirements. water discharges and use. the federal clean water act (the "cwa") and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states and state waters. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spcc planning requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act ("opa"), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. if an oil spill subject to the requirements of opa were to occur at a company property, the company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of opa and by using the company's opa spill response plan together with the assistance of trained first responders and any oil spill response contractor that the company would have been required to engage pursuant to opa to address such oil spills. operations associated with the company's properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in underground wells. these injection wells are regulated by the safe drinking water act (the "sdwa") and analogous state and local laws. the underground injection well program under the sdwa requires permits from the epa or analogous state agency for the company's disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company's properties comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the company's ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the company's operations. in addition, in response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the disposal of oil and gas-related wastewaters, federal and state agencies have begun investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of such injection wells. the u.s. geological survey is advising the epa regarding potential seismic hazards associated with these types of underground injection wells. it is possible that federal or state agencies will seek to regulate more stringently the underground injection of oil and gas wastewaters as a result of these events. nevertheless, the company is not aware of any imminent actions by federal or state agencies that would affect its use or operation of underground injection wells. the company also routinely uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in the majority of its drilling and completion programs in texas, colorado and elsewhere, where development of most of the company's properties are dependent on the company's ability to hydraulically fracture the producing formations. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions; however, the epa has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels under the sdwa underground injection control program and has published draft permitting guidance in may 2012 addressing the performance of such activities. in november 2011, the epa announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the toxic substances control act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and the agency currently projects to issue an advance notice of proposed rulemaking in may 2013 that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. in august 2012, the epa published final rules under the federal clean air act ("caa"), which became effective october 15, 2012, that, among other things, require producers to reduce volatile organic 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company compound emissions from certain subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are being conducted by routing flowback emissions to a gathering line or capturing and combusting flowback emissions using a combustion device, such as a flare, until january 1, 2015 or performing reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions," with or without combustion devices, on or after january 1, 2015. in addition, the u.s. congress, from time to time, has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in the event that new federal restrictions relating to the hydraulic-fracturing process are adopted in areas where the company currently operates or in the future plans to operate, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant in nature, become subject to additional permitting requirements and experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities. certain states in which the company operates, including colorado and texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. for example, texas adopted a law in june 2011 requiring disclosure to the railroad commission of texas (the "trrc") and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. the company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. nonetheless, in the event state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. certain governmental reviews were recently conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress report released by the agency on december 21, 2012 and a final report expected to be available for public comments and peer review by 2014. moreover, the epa is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. other governmental agencies, including the u.s. department of energy and the u.s. department of the interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. these studies, or future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa or other regulatory mechanisms. the water produced by the company's cbm operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. in a 2008 case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a cbm competitor in a different cbm basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court held that water produced in connection with the cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. the colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this ruling, but there continue to be litigation and uncertainty regarding permitting of produced water withdrawn in connection with cbm activities. the company's cbm or other oil and gas operations and the company's ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected, and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the company's cost of doing business. air emissions. the caa and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. in addition, the epa has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. on august 16, 2012, the epa published final rules under the caa that subject oil and gas production, processing, 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company transmission and storage operations to regulation under the new source performance standards and national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants programs. with regards to production activities, these final rules require, among other things, the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from three subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted: wildcat (exploratory) and delineation gas wells; low reservoir pressure non-wildcat and non-delineation gas wells; and all "other" fractured and refractured gas wells. all three subcategories of wells must route flowback emissions to a gathering line or capture and combust flowback emissions using a combustion device, such as a flare, after october 15, 2012. however, the "other" wells must use reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions, " with or without combustion devices, on or after january 1, 2015. these regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production-related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, effective october 15, 2012 and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels, effective october 15, 2013. the company is currently reviewing this new rule and assessing its potential effects on its operations. compliance with these requirements could increase the company's costs of development and production, which costs could be significant. in addition, in response to reported concerns about high concentrations of benzene in the air near certain drilling sites and gas processing facilities in the barnett shale area, the texas commission on environmental quality (the "tceq") adopted new air emissions limitations and permitting requirements for oil and gas facilities in the state, which are applicable to facilities located in the barnett shale area. these new requirements could increase the cost and time associated with drilling wells in the barnett shale. the agency's investigations could lead to additional, more stringent air permitting requirements, increased regulation, and possible enforcement actions against producers, including pioneer, in the barnett shale area. any adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing gas drilling and operating activities in the barnett shale or other areas of texas that result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new wells for any extended period of time could increase the company's costs or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and cash flows. some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the caa. failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the "esa") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened or endangered species. some of the company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. the presence of a protected species in areas where the company performs activities could result in increased costs or limitations on the company's ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the company's business. as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2011, the u.s. fish and wildlife service is required to consider listing more than 250 species as endangered under the esa and issue decisions with respect to the 250 candidate species before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company operates could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the company's exploration and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce its proved reserves. occupational health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osha hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. in addition, the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable standards and with osha and comparable requirements. global warming and climate change. in december 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other "greenhouse gases" ("ghgs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa adopted regulations under the caa in 2010 establishing title v and prevention of significant deterioration permitting requirements for large sources of ghgs. the company could become subject to these permitting 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which includes certain of the company's facilities. the company is monitoring ghg emissions from its operations in accordance with these ghg emissions reporting rules and believes its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. while the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce ghg emissions at the federal level in recent years. in the absence of federal climate legislation in the united states, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing ghg emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of ghg emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those ghgs. if the u.s. congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on the company's operations. although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address ghg emissions would affect the company's business, any such future laws and regulations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the company can drill. 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). ferc endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ("epact 2005") it is unlawful for "any entity," including producers such as the company, that are otherwise not subject to ferc's jurisdiction under the natural gas act (the "nga") to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. ferc's rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties up to $1.0 million per day per violation of the nga and the natural gas policy act of 1978. the anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of entities not otherwise subject to ferc's jurisdiction to the extent the activities are conducted "in connection with" gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to ferc jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under order 704 (defined below). in december 2007, ferc issued a final rule on the annual gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing ("order 704"). under order 704, any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to ferc on form no. 552 on may 1 of each year. form no. 552 contains aggregate volumes of gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. it is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of order 704. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the u.s. congress, ferc, state regulatory bodies and the courts. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. the company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken in a materially different way than other gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which it competes. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc's jurisdiction. the company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests ferc has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. there is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. moreover, the distinction between ferc-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by ferc and the courts. thus, the company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by these changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngls . the liquids industry is also extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to ferc jurisdiction under the interstate commerce act (the "ica"). the company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. the ica requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with ferc. the tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. the ica requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before ferc. rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by ferc primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by ferc. for the five- 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company year period beginning in 2010, ferc established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent. this adjustment is subject to review every five years. under ferc's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the company. in addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity. therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the company. any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. however, the company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly-situated competitors. intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. the basis for intrastate liquids pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate liquids pipeline rates, varies from state to state. the company believes that the regulation of liquids pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly-situated competitors. in november 2009, the federal trade commission ("ftc") issued regulations pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day. in july 2010, the u.s. congress passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, which incorporated an expansion of the authority of the commodity futures trading commission ("cftc") to prohibit market manipulation in the markets regulated by the cftc. this authority, with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts, is similar to the anti-manipulation authority granted to the ferc and the ftc as described above. in july 2011, the cftc issued final rules to implement their new anti-manipulation authority. the rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. energy commodity prices . sales prices of gas, oil, condensate and ngls are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the u.s. congress historically has been active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas, or the prices charged for these commodities might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by the u.s. congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company's transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices; 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company gas inventory levels in the united states; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, during 2012 , oil prices fluctuated from a high of $109.77 per bbl in february to a low of $77.69 per bbl in june, while gas prices fluctuated from a low of $1.91 per mcf in april to a high of $3.90 per mcf in november. during 2011 , oil prices fluctuated from a high $113.93 per bbl in april to a low of $75.67 per bbl in october, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $4.85 per mcf in june to a low of $2.99 per mcf in december. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the company's exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant unrealized net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2013 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company's estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2012 and 2011, the company recognized impairment charges of $532.6 million and $354.4 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the company's barnett shale field and edwards and austin chalk gas fields in south texas, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2012 , the company carried unproved property costs of $231.6 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, and contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2012 , the company carried goodwill of $298.1 million . goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a july 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company's market capitalization, (e) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties (as is the case with respect to the company's southern wolfcamp joint interest transaction) and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. for example, during the fourth quarter of 2012, the company was unable to dispose of its barnett shale assets under acceptable terms. consequently, the company no longer expects to dispose of the barnett shale assets during 2013 and has reclassified the barnett shale assets to held for use and their historical results of operations to continuing operations. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information about the barnett shale disposition plans. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2012 , the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and ten treating facilities. the company is the operator of two of the gas processing plants and all ten of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering norm, and unauthorized discharges of toxic gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide drilling, fracture stimulation and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2012 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 271.4 mmbbls of oil, 103.0 mmbbls of ngls and 714.6 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company processing and fractionation facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with gas pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with an interstate pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngls and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. the nature of the company's assets and production operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and occupational safety matters. the oil and gas business involves the production, handling, sale and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of substances or gases, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductible associated with obtaining such insurance. a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations and no assurance can be given that continued compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. the company could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that occurs at its properties or as a result of its operations. there is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in operations upon the company's properties due to its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and as a result of historical operations and waste disposal practices by prior owners and operators. the company currently owns, leases or operates properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes have been released on or under such properties and could be released during future operations. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance or other sources of indemnity. the company's credit facilities and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, convertible senior notes and credit facilities. the terms of the company's borrowings under the senior notes, convertible senior notes and the credit facilities specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note g of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's outstanding debt as of december 31, 2012 and the terms associated therewith. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company faces significant competition, and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop properties. many of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding competition. the company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. the company's business is regulated by a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. for instance, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state water court holding that water produced in connection with cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing permits, possible uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company's business and operations, including that the company may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut in production pending compliance. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding government regulation. the company's sales of oil, gas, ngls or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. ferc, the ftc and the cftc hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company's business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company's physical sales of oil, gas, ngls or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the company's business results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely affected. in addition, the company's forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of a publicly-traded limited partnership. as such, the subsidiary's operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of pioneer southwest, a publicly-traded limited partnership formed by the company to own, develop and acquire oil and gas assets in its area of operations. as general partner, the subsidiary may be deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations to pioneer southwest. activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to others typically involve a higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interest is found to exist. any such liability may be material. the tax treatment of pioneer southwest depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as its not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. if the internal revenue service (the "irs") were to treat pioneer southwest as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or pioneer southwest becomes subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then the value of the company's investment in pioneer southwest would be substantially reduced . the company currently owns a 52.4 percent limited partner interest and a 0.1 percent general partner interest in pioneer southwest. the value of the company's investment in pioneer southwest depends largely on its being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. a publicly traded partnership may be treated as a corporation for united states federal income tax purposes unless 90 percent or more of its gross income for every year is "qualifying income" under section 7704 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. pioneer southwest has not requested and does not plan to request a ruling from the irs with respect to its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. a change in pioneer southwest's business could cause it to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. in addition, a change in current law may cause pioneer southwest to be treated as a corporation for such purposes. for example, members of u.s. congress have from time to time considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. moreover, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. if pioneer southwest were subject to federal income tax as a corporation or any state were to impose a tax upon pioneer southwest, its cash available to pay distributions would be reduced. therefore, treatment of pioneer southwest as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to pioneer southwest's unitholders, including the company, and would likely cause a substantial reduction in the value of the company's investment in pioneer southwest. pioneer southwest's partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the effect of that law on pioneer southwest. the company's business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, the company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could damage the company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to perform their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. while the credit and equity markets have improved during 2010, 2011 and 2012, the economic outlook for 2013 remains uncertain. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. concerns over the worldwide economic outlook, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and the u.s. mortgage and real estate markets have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. these factors, combined with volatile commodity prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment resulted in a worldwide recession. while the worldwide economic outlook seems to be improving, concerns about global economic growth or government debt in europe or the united states could have a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company's net revenue and profitability. certain u.s. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. in recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to u.s. tax laws, including elimination of certain key u.s. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. such tax legislation changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company expenditures. it is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. the passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in u.s. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect the value of an investment in the company's common stock and defer planned capital expenditures if such changes accelerated the payment of taxes. the adoption of climate change legislation by the u.s. congress or regulation by the epa could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces. in december 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa adopted regulations under the caa in 2010 establishing title v and prevention of significant deterioration permitting requirements for large sources of ghgs. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the company's facilities. the company is monitoring ghg emissions from its operations in accordance with these ghg emissions reporting rules and believes that its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. while the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce ghg emissions at the federal level in recent years. in the absence of federal climate legislation in the united states, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing ghg emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of ghg emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those ghgs. if the u.s. congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on the company's operations. although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address ghg emissions would affect the company's business, any such future laws and regulations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. also, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations - environmental and occupational health and safety matters - global warming and climate change" for additional discussion relating to global warming and climate change. the enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "act") enacted on july 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the act. in its rulemaking under the act, the cftc has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. certain bona fide derivative transactions would be exempt from these position limits. the position limits rule was vacated by the united states district court for the district of colombia in september 2012, although the cftc has stated that it will appeal the district court's decision. the cftc also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of "swap", "security-based swap", "swap dealer" and "major swap participant." the act and the cftc rules also will require the company, in connection with certain derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). in addition, new regulations may require the company to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to the company is uncertain at this time. other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the cftc recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. as a result, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the act and the cftc rules on the company and the timing of such effects. the act also may require the counterparties to the company's derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. the act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect the company's available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters, reduce the company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase the company's exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the act and regulations implementing the act, the company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company's revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions; however, the epa has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels under the sdwa's underground injection control program and published draft permitting guidance in may 2012 addressing the performance of such activities. in november 2011, the epa announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the toxic substances control act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and the agency currently projects to issue an advance notice of proposed rulemaking in may 2013 that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. in august 2012, the epa published final rules under the caa, which became effective october 15, 2012, that, among other things, require producers to reduce volatile organic compound emissions from certain subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are being conducted by routing flowback emissions to a gathering line or capturing and combusting flowback emissions using a combustion device, such as a flare, until january 1, 2015 or performing reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions," with or without combustion devices, on or after january 1, 2015. in addition, the u.s. congress, from time to time, has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in the event that a new federal level of legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic-fracturing process is adopted in areas where the company currently or in the future plans to operate, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant in nature, become subject to additional permitting requirements and experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities. certain states in which the company operates, including colorado and texas have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. for example, texas adopted a law in june 2011 requiring disclosure to the trrc and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. the company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. nonetheless, in the event state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. certain governmental reviews were recently conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress released by the agency on december 21, 2012 and a final report expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014. moreover, the epa is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. other governmental agencies, including the u.s. department of energy and the u.s. department of the interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. these studies, or future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa or other regulatory mechanisms. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations - environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks associated with the company's hydraulic fracturing activities. 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company provisions of the company's charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. provisions in the company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company's board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. the company is growing production in areas of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas in which industry activity has increased rapidly, particularly in the spraberry field in west texas and the eagle ford shale play in south texas. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, has increased, as have the costs for those items. in addition, hydraulic fracturing and other operations require significant quantities of water, which supply may be affected by drought conditions. any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the company to complete its planned development activities, including the result of any changes in laws or regulations applicable to the company's operations relating to water usage, could result in oil and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's profitability. laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs. various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. these statutes include the esa, the migratory bird treaty act, the cwa and cercla. the u.s. fish and wildlife service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. a critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2011, the u.s. fish and wildlife service is required to consider listing more than 250 species as endangered or threatened under the esa before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on its exploration and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. the company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance. ownership of industrial sand mining operations are subject to risks, many of which are beyond the company's control. these risks include: unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures; cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls; unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions; inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change; environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures, and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants; changes in laws and regulations; inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights; restrictions on blasting operations; inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts; 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company reduction in the amount of water available for processing; technical difficulties or failures; labor disputes; late delivery of supplies; fires, explosions or other accidents; and facility shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions. any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. not all of these risks are insurable, and the company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. the company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated. the company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are reviewed by outside firms. however, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the company's control. estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as: geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience; assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. the company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, ghg emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, hazardous materials and natural resources. some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the cercla, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of hazardous materials or otherwise conduct the company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. in addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. the company's continued compliance with existing or future laws and regulations could restrict the company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations. any failure by the company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely affect the company, including: issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations; imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the company's operations, including cessation of operations; and requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. 28 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in addition to environmental regulation, the company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the u.s. mining safety and health administration, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the company's sand mining operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. the company's failure to comply with such standards, or changes in such standards or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive other regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities. in addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. also, the company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits, water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility. in order to obtain permits and renewals of permits in the future for its sand mining operations, the company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. obtaining or renewing required permits may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the company's control. a decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations and the company may not be able to renew or obtain permits in the future. the company's sand mining operations entail silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company. the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. there is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. these health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. the actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the company through the threat of product liability or employee lawsuits and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. premier silica is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of premier silica's customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. as of december 31, 2012, premier silica was the subject of approximately 2,500 silica exposure claims, the great majority of which have been inactive for many years due to the plaintiffs' failure to meet specific legal requirements to advance their claims. almost all of the claims pending against premier silica arise out of the alleged use of premier silica's sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of texas, louisiana, florida and west virginia, although some cases have been brought in many other jurisdictions over the years. it is possible that premier silica will continue to have silica-related products liability claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or indemnification from the seller could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the company's pending sale of 40 percent of its acreage in the horizontal wolfcamp shale play in the southern portion of the spraberry field is contingent upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and may not be consummated on the terms or timeline contemplated and may not achieve the intended results. in january 2013, the company agreed to sell 40 percent of its interest in 207,000 net acres leased by the company in the horizontal wolfcamp shale play in the southern portion of the spraberry field to sinochem, an unaffiliated third party, for 29 table of contents pioneer natural resources company consideration of $1.7 billion . at closing, sinochem will pay $522.0 million in cash to pioneer, before normal closing adjustments, and will pay the remaining $1.2 billion by carrying 75 percent of the company's portion of future drilling and facilities costs attributable to the horizontal wolfcamp shale play. the company expects this transaction to close during the second quarter of 2013. however, the parties' obligations to consummate this transaction are conditioned upon the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, including governmental and third party approvals. if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the acquisition will not be consummated. if the closing of the transaction is substantially delayed or does not occur at all, the company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction fully or at all. further, if the transaction is not completed, the company would need to reevaluate its capital expenditure budget and reduce its activities or obtain funding from other sources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative disclosures 64 qualitative disclosures 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a delaware corporation formed in 1997. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado and midland, texas. at december 31, 2012 , the company had 3,667 employees, 2,484 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford shale, barnett shale combo, hugoton and west panhandle fields; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are 94 percent of the company's proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2012 . business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. while oil and ngl prices generally improved from 2009 through 2011, during 2012, oil and ngl production growth in the united states outpaced demand growth causing prices to become more volatile and decline during the year. north american gas prices have remained volatile and have generally trended lower since 2009. the decline in north american gas prices is primarily a result of growing gas supplies associated with discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal recent winters, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the united states. oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals; however, recent increases in united states oil, ngl and gas production volumes from the permian basin, eagle ford, bakken and marcellus areas have been met with lower demand, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations, which has led to a reduction in united states nymex oil, ngl and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including brent oil prices. 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company during 2010, 2011 and 2012, the economies in the united states and certain other countries stabilized with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. while the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery remains cautiously optimistic, it is still uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2013. significant factors that will affect 2013 commodity prices include: the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american ngl and gas supply and demand fundamentals. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2012, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp ( 26 percent ), enterprise products partners l.p. ( 15 percent ) and occidental energy marketing inc. ( 14 percent ). the company believes that the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk," and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices; 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company gas inventory levels in the united states; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, during 2012 , oil prices fluctuated from a high of $109.77 per bbl in february to a low of $77.69 per bbl in june, while gas prices fluctuated from a low of $1.91 per mcf in april to a high of $3.90 per mcf in november. during 2011 , oil prices fluctuated from a high $113.93 per bbl in april to a low of $75.67 per bbl in october, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $4.85 per mcf in june to a low of $2.99 per mcf in december. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the company's exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant unrealized net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2013 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company's estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2012 and 2011, the company recognized impairment charges of $532.6 million and $354.4 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the company's barnett shale field and edwards and austin chalk gas fields in south texas, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2012 , the company carried unproved property costs of $231.6 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, and contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2012 , the company carried goodwill of $298.1 million . goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a july 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company's market capitalization, (e) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties (as is the case with respect to the company's southern wolfcamp joint interest transaction) and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. for example, during the fourth quarter of 2012, the company was unable to dispose of its barnett shale assets under acceptable terms. consequently, the company no longer expects to dispose of the barnett shale assets during 2013 and has reclassified the barnett shale assets to held for use and their historical results of operations to continuing operations. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and notes b and e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations. the amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. (b) see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2012 , and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. the fair values of the company's derivative contracts are determined based on the company's valuation models and applications. as of december 31, 2012 , the company was a party to commodity swap contracts, interest rate swap contracts, commodity collar contracts and commodity collar contracts with short put options. see note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 17 risk factors," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd." the company is a delaware corporation formed in 1997. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; and midland, texas. at december 31, 2013 , the company had 4,203 employees, 1,985 of whom were employed in other field and plant operations and 894 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford shale play; the hugoton and west panhandle fields; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are 92 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2013 . business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. north american oil prices have been fairly consistent during the past three years despite the significant increase in united states oil production from unconventional shale plays. the growth in north american oil production has been offset by reduced oil imports, keeping supply and demand fairly balanced. continued oil production growth in united states from unconventional shale plays is expected to outpace the decline in oil imports and increase oil price volatility. the growth of unconventional shale drilling has also substantially increased the supply of ngls, resulting in a significant decline in ngl component prices as the supply of such products has grown. while more export facilities have been built and ngl exports are increasing, the overall united states demand for ngl products has not kept pace with the remaining supply of such products; consequently, prices for ngl products have generally declined over the past three years. north american gas prices have remained 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company volatile and they trended lower from 2009 through 2012, but improved steadily throughout 2013. the decline in north american gas prices was primarily a result of significant discoveries of gas and associated gas reserves in united states gas, oil and liquid-rich shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal recent winters, which resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the united states. the increases in gas prices during 2013 were primarily related to reduced drilling activity in gas shale plays and demand increases in the latter part of the year as a result of colder weather. oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals; however, recent increases in united states oil, ngl and gas production volumes from the permian basin, eagle ford, bakken and marcellus areas have been met with lower demand, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations, which has led to a reduction in united states nymex oil, ngl and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including brent oil prices. since 2010, the economies in the united states and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. while the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery remains cautiously optimistic, it is still uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2014. significant factors that will affect 2014 commodity prices include: the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; the capacity of united states refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; potential export regulatory changes in the united states; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including refilling gas storage that is anticipated to be lower than normal at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2015, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's open derivative positions as of december 31, 2013 . the company. the company's growth plan is primarily anchored by horizontal drilling in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas and the liquid-rich eagle ford shale field located in south texas. complementing these growth areas, the company has oil and gas production activities and development opportunities in the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the hugoton gas and liquid field located in southwest kansas, the west panhandle gas and liquid field located in the texas panhandle and the edwards gas field located in south texas. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced and diversified among oil, ngl and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. the company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the company believes are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2013 , the company's production from continuing operations of 58.9 mmboe, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 12 percent increase over production from continuing operations during 2012 . production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 is set forth in "item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data." development activities. the company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2013 , the company drilled 1,850 gross (1,655 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $4.8 billion. 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2013 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 102.5 mmbbls of oil, 41.9 mmbbls of ngls and 328.9 bcf of gas. the company believes that its proved reserves represent a significant portfolio of development opportunities. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1a. risk factors exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below. integrated services. the company continues to expand its integrated services to control drilling and operating costs and support the execution of its drilling program and operating activities. the company has company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 300,000 horsepower supporting drilling operations in the spraberry/wolfcamp and eagle ford shale areas. the company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. in april 2012, pioneer acquired a large u.s. industrial sands company, which was renamed premier silica (see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about the acquisition of premier silica). that acquisition secured a high-quality, low-cost and logistically advantaged brown sand supply for pioneer to use for its growing fracture stimulation requirements in the spraberry field. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , the company spent $76.0 million , $157.5 million and $131.9 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities. in addition, on december 17, 2013, the company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding common units of pioneer southwest not already owned by the company, through a merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company into pioneer southwest, the result of which was that pioneer southwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. the pioneer southwest merger was effected pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger dated august 9, 2013, as amended on october 25, 2013 (as amended, the "merger agreement"), and was approved by the holders of the common units of pioneer southwest at a special meeting held on december 17, 2013. pursuant to the merger agreement, all of the common units outstanding as of the closing of the merger were canceled and converted into the right to receive 0.2325 of a share of common stock of the company per common unit. in december 2013 the company issued an aggregate of 3.96 million shares of its common stock to pioneer southwest unitholders. the merger is expected to facilitate the company's plans to fully and optimally develop the company's spraberry/wolfcamp properties in the midland basin in west texas utilizing horizontal drilling and is expected to enhance the company's organizational, operational and administrative efficiencies. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. see "item 1a. risk factors the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business." asset divestitures and discontinued operations. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. during the fourth quarter of 2013, the company committed to a plan to sell 100 percent of the capital stock in pioneer's alaska subsidiary, representing all the company's net assets in alaska ("pioneer alaska"). the sale of pioneer alaska continues to be subject to ongoing negotiations and certain other conditions, such as governmental approvals and buyer's arrangement of financing. associated with the planned sale of pioneer alaska, the company recorded a noncash impairment charge of $539.8 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company million during december 2013 to reduce the carrying value of pioneer alaska to its estimated fair value less costs to sell of $350.6 million . the company has classified pioneer alaska assets and liabilities as held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2013 and has reported pioneer alaska's historical results of operations, and the related impairment loss, as discontinued operations, net of tax in the company's accompanying consolidated statements of operations. during the fourth quarter of 2013, the company also committed to a plan to divest of its net assets in the barnett shale field in north texas. the plan is expected to result in the sale of the barnett shale net assets during 2014. associated with the plan to sell the company's net assets in the barnett shale field, the company recorded a noncash impairment charge of $189.5 million during december 2013 to reduce the carrying value of the barnett shale field net assets to their estimated fair value less costs to sell. the company has classified barnett shale assets and liabilities as held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2013 and has reported barnett shale historical results of operations, and the related impairment loss, as discontinued operations, net of tax in the company's accompanying consolidated statements of operations. during december 2013, the company committed to a plan to sell its majority interest in sendero drilling company, llc ("sendero"), the company's vertical drilling rig subsidiary, to sendero's minority interest owner for $31.0 million , subject to negotiating a definitive sales agreement and the buyer completing its financing arrangements. associated with the planned sale of sendero, the company recorded a noncash loss of $25.5 million during december 2013 to reduce the carrying value of sendero's net assets to their estimated fair value. as part of the sales negotiations, the company plans to commit to lease 12 sendero rigs through december 31, 2015 and to lease eight sendero rigs in 2016. the company has classified sendero assets and liabilities as held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2013. the company's plans to sell pioneer alaska, the barnett shale net assets and sendero are in various stages of marketing or negotiation. no assurance can be given that the sales will be completed in accordance with the company's plans. in january 2013, the company signed an agreement with sinochem petroleum usa llc ("sinochem"), a u.s. subsidiary of the sinochem group, an unaffiliated third party, to sell 40 percent of pioneer's interest in 207,000 net acres leased by the company in the horizontal wolfcamp shale play in the southern portion of the spraberry field for consideration of $1.8 billion. in may 2013, the company completed the sale to sinochem for net cash proceeds of $623.8 million, resulting in a gain of $181.3 million related to the unproved property interests conveyed to sinochem. sinochem is paying the remaining $1.2 billion of the transaction price by carrying 75 percent of pioneer's portion of ongoing drilling and facilities costs attributable to the company's joint operations with sinochem in the horizontal wolfcamp shale play. during december 2011, the company committed to a plan to exit south africa and initiated a process to divest its net assets in south africa ("pioneer south africa"). during the first quarter of 2012, the company agreed to sell pioneer south africa to an unaffiliated third party, effective january 1, 2012, for $60.0 million of cash proceeds before normal closing and other adjustments, and the buyer's assumption of certain liabilities of the company's south africa subsidiaries. in august 2012, the company completed the sale of pioneer south africa for net cash proceeds of $15.9 million, including normal closing adjustments for cash revenues and costs and expenses from the effective date through the date of the sale, resulting in a gain of $28.6 million. the company classified pioneer south africa's results of operations as discontinued operations, net of tax in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. in february 2011, the company sold 100 percent of the company's share holdings in pioneer natural resources tunisia ltd. and pioneer natural resources anaguid ltd. (referred to in the aggregate as "pioneer tunisia") to an unaffiliated third party for cash proceeds of $802.5 million, excluding cash and cash equivalents sold, resulting in a gain of $645.2 million. the company classified the results of operations of pioneer tunisia as discontinued operations, net of tax in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's asset divestitures and discontinued operations. also see "item1a. risk factors - the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for discussion of risk factors associated with the completion of divestitures. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company conditions. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2013, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp ( 26 percent ), enterprise products partners l.p. ( 12 percent ) and occidental energy marketing inc. ( 12 percent ). the company believes that the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about significant customer and infrastructure capacity risks. derivative risk management activities. the company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. the company also, from time to time, utilizes interest rate contracts to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the company's indebtedness. the company accounts for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ("mtm") method of accounting. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's derivative risk management activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk," and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , as well as the company's open commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2013 . competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. some of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the company's common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, worker health and safety, and the discharge of materials into the environment. numerous governmental entities, including the u.s. environmental protection agency (the "epa") and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance and imposing sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, for any failure to comply. these laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling or other regulated activity commences; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in noncompliance with permits; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; impose specific criteria addressing worker protection; require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. these laws and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, the u.s. congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. any changes that result in more stringent and costly drilling, completion, construction or water management activities, or waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant effect on the company's capital and operating costs. the following is a summary of some of the more significant laws and regulations to which the company's business operations are or may be subject. waste handling. the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the auspices of the epa, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under rcra's non-hazardous waste provisions. it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. any such change could result in an increase in the company's costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. in the course of its operations, the company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm") may also be generated in connection with the company's operations. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the occupational safety and health administration ("osha"). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection, with respect to norm, the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste, the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm and restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act. the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. cercla also authorizes the epa and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for recycling or disposal. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. certain of these properties have had historical petroleum spills or releases. all of such properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. if a surface spill or release were to occur, the company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of state oil and gas commissions and by using the company's spill prevention, control and countermeasure ("spcc") plans or other spill or emergency contingency plans that it maintains in accordance with epa requirements. 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company water discharges and use. the federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act (the "cwa"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states and state waters. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spcc planning requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act ("opa"), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. if an oil spill subject to the requirements of opa were to occur at a company property, the company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of opa and by using the company's opa spill response plan together with the assistance of trained first responders and any oil spill response contractor that the company would have engaged pursuant to opa to address such oil spills. operations associated with the company's properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed by injection in underground wells. these injection wells are regulated by the federal safe drinking water act (the "sdwa") and analogous state and local laws. the underground injection well program under the sdwa requires permits from the epa or analogous state agency for the company's disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company's properties substantially comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the company's ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the company's operations. for example, in some areas of texas, there has been concern that certain formations into which disposal wells are injecting produced waters could become over-pressured after many years of injection, and the governing texas regulatory agency is reviewing the data to determine whether any action is necessary to address this issue. if the texas state agency were to decline to issue permits for new injection wells into the formations currently utilized by the company, the company may be required to seek alternative methods of disposing of produced waters, including injecting into deeper formations, which could increase its costs. in addition, in response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the disposal of wastewaters, some federal and state agencies have been investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity. it is possible that federal or state agencies will seek to regulate more stringently the underground injection of oil and gas wastewaters as a result of these events. nevertheless, the company is not aware of any imminent actions by federal or state agencies that would affect its use or operation of underground injection wells due to the concern about seismic activity. the company also uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in virtually all of its drilling and completion programs and development of its properties is dependent on the company's ability to hydraulically fracture the producing formations. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but, the epa has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels under the sdwa underground injection control program and published final permitting guidance in february 2014 addressing the performance of such activities. in 2011, the epa announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the toxic substances control act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and in its semi-annual regulatory agenda published in july 2013, the agency continues to project the future issuance of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. the epa published final rules under the federal clean air act ("caa") that, among other things, require producers to reduce volatile organic compound emissions from certain subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are being conducted by routing flowback emissions to a gathering line or capturing and combusting flowback emissions using a combustion device, such as a flare, until january 1, 2015 and performing reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions," with or without combustion devices, on or after january 1, 2015. also, in may 2013, the federal bureau of land management (the "blm") published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and indian oil and gas leases that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, confirmation that wells used in fracturing operations meet appropriate construction standards, and development of appropriate plans for managing flowback water that returns to the surface. in addition, the u.s. congress, from time to time, has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. certain states in which the company operates, including colorado and texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. the company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. nonetheless, in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. certain governmental reviews were recently conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and a draft report is expected to be available for public comments and peer review in 2014. moreover, the epa is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and is expected to propose these standards in 2014. these studies, or future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa or other regulatory mechanisms. the water produced by the company's cbm operations also may be subject to the state laws and regulations of regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. nevertheless, in 2009, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state court holding that water produced in connection with the cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. the colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this ruling. these and other resulting changes in the regulation of water produced from cbm operations may have an adverse effect on the costs of doing business and the ability to expand operations by the company or other cbm producers. air emissions. the caa and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. in addition, the epa has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. moreover, states may impose their own air emissions limitations, which may be more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. the adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing oil and gas drilling and operating activities in the areas where the company conducts business that result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new wells for any extended period of time could increase the company's costs or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and cash flows. permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for oil and gas exploration and production operations. for example, in 2012, the epa published final rules under the caa that subject oil and gas production, processing, transmission and storage operations to regulation under the new source performance standards and national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants programs. with regard to production activities, these final rules require, among other things, the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from three subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted: wildcat (exploratory) and delineation gas wells; low reservoir pressure non-wildcat and non-delineation gas wells; and all "other" fractured and refractured gas wells. all three subcategories of wells must route flowback emissions to a gathering line or capture and combust flowback emissions using a combustion device, such as a flare. however, the "other" wells must use reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions," with or without combustion devices, on or after january 1, 2015. these regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production-related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, effective october 15, 2012 and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels, beginning as early as october 15, 2013. compliance with these requirements could increase the company's costs of development and production, which costs could be significant. 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the "esa") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened or endangered species. some of the company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. the presence of a protected species in areas where the company performs activities could result in increased costs or limitations on the company's ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the company's business. moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2011, the u.s. fish and wildlife service is required to make a determination on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company operates could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the company's drilling and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce its proved reserves. activities on federal lands. oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands, including indian lands and lands administered by the blm, are subject to the national environmental policy act, as amended ("nepa"). nepa requires federal agencies, including the blm, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. in the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an environmental assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact statement that may be made available for public review and comment. currently, the company has minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands. however, for those current activities as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of nepa are required. this process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of oil and gas projects. authorizations under nepa are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. occupational health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osha hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. in addition, the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable standards and with osha and comparable requirements. climate change. in 2009, the epa published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ("ghgs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has adopted regulations under the caa establishing title v and prevention of significant deterioration ("psd") permitting requirements for large sources of ghgs. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which includes certain of the company's facilities. the company is monitoring ghg emissions from its operations in accordance with these ghg emissions reporting rules and believes its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. while the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce ghg emissions at the federal level in recent years. in the absence of federal climate legislation in the united states, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing ghg emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of ghg emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those ghgs. if the u.s. congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on the company's operations. although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address ghg emissions would affect the company's business, any such future laws and regulations could require the company to incur increased 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). ferc endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ("epact 2005") it is unlawful for "any entity," including producers such as the company, that are otherwise not subject to ferc's jurisdiction under the natural gas act (the "nga"), to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. ferc's rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation of the nga or the natural gas policy 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company act of 1978. the anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of entities not otherwise subject to ferc's jurisdiction to the extent the activities are conducted "in connection with" gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to ferc jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under order 704 (defined below). in december 2007, ferc issued a final rule on the annual gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing ("order 704"). under order 704, any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to ferc on form no. 552 on may 1 of each year. form no. 552 contains aggregate volumes of gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. it is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of order 704. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the u.s. congress, ferc, state regulatory bodies and the courts. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. the company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken in a materially different way than other gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which it competes. natural gas processing . the company's gas processing operations are not subject to ferc or state regulation. there can be no assurance that the company's processing operations will continue to be exempt from regulation in the future. however, although the processing facilities may not be directly related, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the company's processing business. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc's jurisdiction. the company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests ferc has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. there is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. moreover, the distinction between ferc-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by ferc and the courts. thus, the company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by these changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngls . the liquids industry is also extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to ferc jurisdiction under the interstate commerce act (the "ica"). the company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. the ica requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with ferc. the tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. the ica requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before ferc. rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by ferc primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by ferc. for the five-year period beginning in 2010, ferc established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent. this adjustment is subject to review every five years. under ferc's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the company. in addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company company. any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. however, the company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly-situated competitors. intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. the basis for intrastate liquids pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate liquids pipeline rates, varies from state to state. the company believes that the regulation of liquids pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly-situated competitors. in november 2009, the federal trade commission ("ftc") issued regulations pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day. in july 2010, the u.s. congress passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, which incorporated an expansion of the authority of the commodity futures trading commission ("cftc") to prohibit market manipulation in the markets regulated by the cftc. this authority, with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts, is similar to the anti-manipulation authority granted to the ferc with respect to anti-manipulation in the gas industry and the ftc with respect to oil purchases and sales, as described above. in july 2011, the cftc issued final rules to implement their new anti-manipulation authority. the rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. energy commodity prices . sales prices of oil, condensate, ngls and gas are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the u.s. congress historically has been active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the u.s. congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company's transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices; oil, ngl and gas inventory levels in the united states; the capacity of u.s. refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including laws, regulations and administrative policies that restrict the export of the company's products; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, during 2013 , oil prices fluctuated from a low of $86.68 per bbl in april to a high of $110.53 per bbl in september, while gas prices fluctuated from a low of $3.11 per mcf in january to a high of $4.46 per mcf in december. during 2012 , oil prices fluctuated from a high of $109.77 per bbl in february to a low of $77.69 per bbl in june, while gas prices fluctuated from a low of $1.91 per mcf in april to a high of $3.90 per mcf in november. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2014 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company's estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2013, 2012 and 2011, the company recognized impairment charges of $1.5 billion, $532.6 million and $354.4 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the company's raton field, barnett shale field, and edwards and austin chalk gas fields in south texas, respectively, due to declines in long-term gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2013 , the company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $123.4 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, and contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2013 , the company carried goodwill of $274.3 million . goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company's market capitalization, (e) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2013 , the company owned interests in six gas processing plants and nine treating facilities. the company is the operator of two of the gas processing plants and all nine of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering norm, and unauthorized discharges of toxic gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide drilling, fracture stimulation and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. the results of drilling in emerging areas are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2013 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 102.5 mmbbls of oil, 41.9 mmbbls of ngls and 328.9 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel and drilling results. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing and fractionation facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. for example, following hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the shutdown of the texas gulf coast ngl fractionators. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, refining or processing facilities, or lack of capacity on such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with gas pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with an interstate pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngls and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. the company is growing production in areas of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas in which industry activity has increased rapidly, particularly in the spraberry field in west texas and the eagle ford shale play in south texas. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, has increased, as have the costs for those items. in addition, hydraulic fracturing and other operations require significant quantities of water, which supply may be affected by drought conditions. any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the company to complete its planned development activities, including the result of any changes in laws or regulations applicable to the company's operations relating to water usage, could result in oil and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets. under u.s. law and regulations, the export of oil and certain condensates is restricted. absent a change in this law or an expansion of u.s. refining capacity, rising u.s. production of oil and condensate could result in a surplus of these products, which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. in such circumstances, the returns on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the nature of the company's assets and production operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the oil and gas business involves the production, handling, sale and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of substances or gases, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductible associated with obtaining such insurance. a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations and no assurance can be given that continued compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. the company could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that occurs at its properties or as a result of its operations. there is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in operations upon the company's properties due to its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and as a result of historical operations and waste disposal practices by prior owners and operators. the company currently owns, leases or operates properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes have been released on or under such properties and could be released during future operations. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance or other sources of contractual indemnity. the company's credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note g of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's outstanding debt as of december 31, 2013 and the terms associated therewith. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. the company faces significant competition, and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding competition. the company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. the company's business is regulated by a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. for instance, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state water court holding that water produced in connection with cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing permits, possible uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. as another example, the underground injection well program under the sdwa requires permits from the epa or an analogous state agency for the company's disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. in some areas of texas, there has been concern that certain formations into which disposal wells are injecting produced waters could become over-pressured after many years of injection, and the governing texas regulatory agency is reviewing the data to determine whether any action is necessary to address this issue. if the texas state 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company agency were to decline to issue permits for new injection wells into the formations currently utilized by the company, the company may be required to seek alternative methods of disposing of produced waters, including injecting into deeper formations, which could increase its costs. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company's business and operations, including that the company may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut in production pending compliance. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding government regulation. the company's sales of oil, gas, ngls or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. ferc, the ftc and the cftc hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company's business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company's physical sales of oil, gas, ngls or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the company's business results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely affected. in addition, the company's forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. the company's business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, the company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could damage the company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to perform their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the worldwide economic outlook has been improving steadily since 2010, but if there are renewed concerns about global economic growth or government debt in europe or the united states, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company's net revenue and profitability. certain u.s. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. in recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to u.s. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key u.s. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. such tax legislation changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company expenditures. it is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. the passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in u.s. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could have an adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces. in 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa adopted regulations under the caa establishing title v and psd permitting requirements for large sources of ghgs. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the company's facilities. while the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce ghg emissions at the federal level in recent years. in the absence of federal climate legislation in the united states, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing ghg emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of ghg emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those ghgs. if the u.s. congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on the company's operations. although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address ghg emissions would affect the company's business, any such future laws and regulations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations - environmental and occupational health and safety matters - climate change" for additional discussion relating to climate change. the enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") enacted on july 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations for its implementation. in october 2011, the cftc issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. the initial position limits rule was vacated by the united states district court for the district of colombia in september 2012. however, in november 2013, the cftc proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions. as these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the company is uncertain at this time. the cftc has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. although the company believes it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the company's derivatives. although the cftc has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished or what the effect of any such regulations will be on the company. for example, for uncleared swaps, the cftc or federal banking regulators may require end-users to enter into credit support documentation and/or post initial and variation margin. posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to the company for capital expenditures, therefore reducing its ability to execute derivatives to reduce risk and protect cash flows. the proposed margin rules are not yet final, and therefore the impact of those provisions to the company is uncertain at this time. the dodd-frank act also may require the counterparties to the company's derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. the full impact of the dodd-frank act and related regulatory requirements upon the company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters, reduce the company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase the company's exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the dodd-frank act and regulations, the company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company's revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but the epa has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels under the sdwa's underground injection control program and published final permitting guidance in february 2014 addressing the performance of such activities. in 2011, the epa announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the toxic substances control act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and in its semi-annual regulatory agenda published in july 2013, the agency continues to project the future issuance of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. the epa has published final rules under the caa that, among other things, require producers to reduce volatile organic compound emissions from certain subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are being conducted by routing flowback emissions to a gathering line or capturing and combusting flowback emissions using a combustion device, such as a flare, until january 1, 2015 and performing green completions, with or without combustion devices, on or after january 1, 2015. also, in may 2013, the blm published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and indian oil and gas leases that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, confirmation that wells used in fracturing operations meet appropriate construction standards, and development of appropriate plans for managing flowback water that returns to the surface. in addition, the u.s. congress, from time to time, has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. certain states in which the company operates, including colorado and texas have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. in addition, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. certain governmental reviews were recently conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and a draft report is expected to be available for public comment and peer review in 2014. moreover, the epa is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and is expected to propose these standards in 2014. these studies, or future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa or other regulatory mechanisms. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations - environmental and occupational health and safety matters" for additional discussion related to environmental risks associated with the company's hydraulic fracturing activities. laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs. various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. these statutes include the esa, the migratory bird treaty act, the cwa and cercla. the u.s. fish and wildlife service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. a critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2011, the u.s. fish and wildlife service is required to make a determination on the listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on its development and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. provisions of the company's charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. provisions in the company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company's board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. the company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance. ownership of industrial sand mining operations are subject to risks, many of which are beyond the company's control. these risks include: unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures; cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls; unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions; inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change; environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants; changes in laws and regulations; inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights; restrictions on blasting operations; inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts; reduction in the amount of water available for processing; technical difficulties or failures; labor disputes; late delivery of supplies; fires, explosions or other accidents; and facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions. any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. not all of these risks are insurable, and the company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. the company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated. the company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are periodically reviewed by outside firms. however, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the company's control. estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as: 28 table of contents pioneer natural resources company geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience; assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. the company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, ghg emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, hazardous materials and natural resources. some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the cercla, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of hazardous materials or otherwise conduct the company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. in addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. the company's continued compliance with existing or future laws and regulations could restrict the company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations. any failure by the company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely affect the company, including: issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations; imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; and requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. in addition to environmental regulation, the company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the u.s. mining safety and health administration, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the company's sand mining operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. the company's failure to comply with such standards, or changes in such standards or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive other regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities. in addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. also, the company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits, water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility. in order to obtain permits and renewals of permits in the future for its sand mining operations, the company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. 29 table of contents pioneer natural resources company obtaining or renewing required permits may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the company's control. a decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations and the company may not be able to renew or obtain permits in the future. the company's sand mining operations entail silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company. the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. there is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. these health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. the actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the company through the threat of product liability or employee lawsuits and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. premier silica is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of premier silica's customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. as of december 31, 2013, premier silica was the subject of approximately 2,200 silica exposure claims, the great majority of which have been inactive for many years due to the plaintiffs' failure to meet specific legal requirements to advance their claims. almost all of the claims pending against premier silica arise out of the alleged use of premier silica's sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of texas, florida and missouri, although some cases have been brought in many other jurisdictions over the years. it is possible that premier silica will continue to have silica-related products liability claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or indemnification from the seller could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative disclosures 63 qualitative disclosures 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd." the company is a delaware corporation formed in 1997. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; and midland, texas. at december 31, 2013 , the company had 4,203 employees, 1,985 of whom were employed in other field and plant operations and 894 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford shale play; the hugoton and west panhandle fields; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are 92 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2013 . business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. north american oil prices have been fairly consistent during the past three years despite the significant increase in united states oil production from unconventional shale plays. the growth in north american oil production has been offset by reduced oil imports, keeping supply and demand fairly balanced. continued oil production growth in united states from unconventional shale plays is expected to outpace the decline in oil imports and increase oil price volatility. the growth of unconventional shale drilling has also substantially increased the supply of ngls, resulting in a significant decline in ngl component prices as the supply of such products has grown. while more export facilities have been built and ngl exports are increasing, the overall united states demand for ngl products has not kept pace with the remaining supply of such products; consequently, prices for ngl products have generally declined over the past three years. north american gas prices have remained 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company volatile and they trended lower from 2009 through 2012, but improved steadily throughout 2013. the decline in north american gas prices was primarily a result of significant discoveries of gas and associated gas reserves in united states gas, oil and liquid-rich shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal recent winters, which resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the united states. the increases in gas prices during 2013 were primarily related to reduced drilling activity in gas shale plays and demand increases in the latter part of the year as a result of colder weather. oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals; however, recent increases in united states oil, ngl and gas production volumes from the permian basin, eagle ford, bakken and marcellus areas have been met with lower demand, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations, which has led to a reduction in united states nymex oil, ngl and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including brent oil prices. since 2010, the economies in the united states and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. while the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery remains cautiously optimistic, it is still uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2014. significant factors that will affect 2014 commodity prices include: the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; the capacity of united states refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; potential export regulatory changes in the united states; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including refilling gas storage that is anticipated to be lower than normal at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2015, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2013, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp ( 26 percent ), enterprise products partners l.p. ( 12 percent ) and occidental energy marketing inc. ( 12 percent ). the company believes that the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk," and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices; oil, ngl and gas inventory levels in the united states; the capacity of u.s. refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including laws, regulations and administrative policies that restrict the export of the company's products; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, during 2013 , oil prices fluctuated from a low of $86.68 per bbl in april to a high of $110.53 per bbl in september, while gas prices fluctuated from a low of $3.11 per mcf in january to a high of $4.46 per mcf in december. during 2012 , oil prices fluctuated from a high of $109.77 per bbl in february to a low of $77.69 per bbl in june, while gas prices fluctuated from a low of $1.91 per mcf in april to a high of $3.90 per mcf in november. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2014 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company's estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2013, 2012 and 2011, the company recognized impairment charges of $1.5 billion, $532.6 million and $354.4 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the company's raton field, barnett shale field, and edwards and austin chalk gas fields in south texas, respectively, due to declines in long-term gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2013 , the company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $123.4 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, and contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2013 , the company carried goodwill of $274.3 million . goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company's market capitalization, (e) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2013 , the company owned interests in six gas processing plants and nine treating facilities. the company is the operator of two of the gas processing plants and all nine of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering norm, and unauthorized discharges of toxic gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide drilling, fracture stimulation and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. the results of drilling in emerging areas are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2013 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 102.5 mmbbls of oil, 41.9 mmbbls of ngls and 328.9 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel and drilling results. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing and fractionation facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. for example, following hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the shutdown of the texas gulf coast ngl fractionators. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, refining or processing facilities, or lack of capacity on such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with gas pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with an interstate pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngls and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. the company is growing production in areas of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas in which industry activity has increased rapidly, particularly in the spraberry field in west texas and the eagle ford shale play in south texas. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, has increased, as have the costs for those items. in addition, hydraulic fracturing and other operations require significant quantities of water, which supply may be affected by drought conditions. any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the company to complete its planned development activities, including the result of any changes in laws or regulations applicable to the company's operations relating to water usage, could result in oil and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets. under u.s. law and regulations, the export of oil and certain condensates is restricted. absent a change in this law or an expansion of u.s. refining capacity, rising u.s. production of oil and condensate could result in a surplus of these products, which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. in such circumstances, the returns on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the nature of the company's assets and production operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the oil and gas business involves the production, handling, sale and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of substances or gases, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductible associated with obtaining such insurance. a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations and no assurance can be given that continued compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. the company could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that occurs at its properties or as a result of its operations. there is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in operations upon the company's properties due to its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and as a result of historical operations and waste disposal practices by prior owners and operators. the company currently owns, leases or operates properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes have been released on or under such properties and could be released during future operations. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance or other sources of contractual indemnity. the company's credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note g of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations. the amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. (b) see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2013 , and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. the fair values of the company's long-term debt and derivative contracts are determined based on observable inputs and utilizing the company's valuation models and applications. as of december 31, 2013 , the company was a party to commodity swap contracts, interest rate swap contracts, commodity collar contracts and commodity collar contracts with short put options. see notes d and e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 17 risk factors," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd." the company is a delaware corporation formed in 1997. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in denver, colorado and midland, texas. at december 31, 2014 , the company had 4,075 employees, 1,795 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 848 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses material information from time to time in its press releases, at annual meetings of stockholders, in publicly accessible conferences and investor presentations, and through its website (principally in the investors pages). mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford shale play; the west panhandle gas and liquids field; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are 98 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2014 . business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. north american oil prices had been fairly stable during the past three years despite the significant increase in united states oil production from unconventional shale plays. during such time, the growth in north american oil production had been offset by reduced oil imports, keeping supply and demand fairly balanced in the united states. on an international level, the geopolitical factors negatively impacting international oil supplies were offset by the decline in united states imports, resulting in generally stable world oil prices. during the second half of 2014, however, as united states production continued to surge, worldwide demand was sluggish, reflecting the decline in the chinese growth rate, the lingering recession in europe and weaker economic performance in other regions, resulting in a worldwide oversupply of oil and oil price weakness. during the fourth quarter of 2014, members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") decided to maintain production quotas at current levels despite production outpacing demand. this caused oil prices, which had already been declining, to decrease significantly in december 2014. the market oversupply of oil is expected to continue in 2015, with oil prices expected to remain under pressure. the growth of unconventional shale drilling has also substantially increased the supply of ngls, resulting 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in a significant decline in ngl component prices as the supply of such products has grown. while more export facilities have been built and ngl exports are increasing, the overall united states demand for ngl products has not kept pace with the supply of such products; consequently, prices for ngl products have generally declined over the past three years. north american gas prices have remained volatile and they trended lower from 2009 through 2012, but improved steadily throughout 2013 and 2014 before dropping significantly in the fourth quarter of 2014. the decline in north american gas prices from 2009 through 2012 was primarily a result of significant discoveries of gas and associated gas reserves in united states gas, oil and liquid-rich shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal winters, which resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the united states. the increases in gas prices during the latter part of 2013 and the majority of 2014 were primarily related to reduced drilling activity in gas shale plays and demand increases as a result of colder late 2013 and early 2014 winter weather, which reduced storage levels. the recent gas price decrease during the fourth quarter of 2014 reflects expectations for a warmer than normal winter, which is expected to result in gas storage levels being higher than normal at the end of the winter draw season and an expectation that there will be an oversupply of gas during 2015. oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals. recent increases in united states oil, ngl and gas production volumes from the permian basin, eagle ford, bakken, marcellus and utica areas have been met with lower demand, the decades-old ban on oil exports, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations. these factors have led to a reduction in united states nymex oil, ngl and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including brent oil prices. since 2010, the economies in the united states and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. while the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery remains cautiously optimistic, its timing and strength is still uncertain; therefore, the likelihood of a sustained recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2015. significant factors that will affect 2015 commodity prices include: the impact of announced capital spending decreases on forecasted united states oil, ngl and gas supplies; the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; the capacity of united states refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; potential export regulatory changes in the united states; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including gas storage levels that are anticipated to be higher than normal at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2015, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's open derivative positions as of december 31, 2014 , and subsequent changes to these positions. the company. the company's growth plan is primarily anchored by horizontal drilling in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas and the liquid-rich eagle ford shale field located in south texas. complementing these growth areas, the company has oil and gas production activities and development opportunities in the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the west panhandle gas and liquids field located in the texas panhandle and the edwards gas field located in south texas. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced and diversified among oil, ngl and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. the company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the company believes are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , the company's production 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company from continuing operations of 67 mmboe, excluding field fuel usage, represented an 18 percent increase over production from continuing operations during 2013 . production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for 2014 , 2013 and 2012 is set forth in "item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data." development activities. the company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2014 , the company drilled 1,423 gross (1,242 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $4.9 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2014 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 89 mmbbls of oil, 42 mmbbls of ngls and 317 bcf of gas. the company believes that its proved reserves represent a significant portfolio of development opportunities. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1a. risk factors exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below. integrated services. the company continues to benefit from its integrated services to control drilling and operating costs and support the execution of its drilling program and operating activities. the company has company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 360,000 horsepower supporting drilling operations in the spraberry/wolfcamp and eagle ford shale areas. the company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. in april 2012, pioneer acquired a large u.s. industrial sands company, which was renamed premier silica (see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about the acquisition of premier silica). that acquisition secured a high-quality, low-cost and logistically advantaged brown sand supply for pioneer to use for its growing fracture stimulation requirements in the spraberry/wolfcamp field. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , the company spent $104 million , $76 million and $158 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities. in december 2014, the company acquired the remaining limited partner interests in five affiliated partnerships for $54 million and caused the partnerships to be merged with and into the company. in addition, in december 2013, the company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding common units of pioneer southwest not already owned by the company in exchange for 3.96 million shares of the company's common stock through a merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company into pioneer southwest, the result of which was that pioneer southwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. the 2014 and 2013 mergers enhance the company's (i) ability to fully and optimally develop the company's spraberry/wolfcamp properties in the midland basin in west texas utilizing horizontal drilling and (ii) organizational, operational and administrative efficiencies. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. see "item 1a. risk factors the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business." asset divestitures and discontinued operations. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company efs midstream. in november 2014, the company announced that it is pursuing the divestment of its 50.1 percent share of efs midstream llc ("efs midstream"). the company is marketing its equity investment in efs midstream and no assurance can be given that a sale will be completed in accordance with the company's plans or on terms and at a price acceptable to the company. hugoton. in september 2014, the company completed the sale of its net assets in the hugoton field in southwest kansas for cash proceeds of $328 million , including normal closing adjustments. barnett shale. during the fourth quarter of 2013, the company committed to a plan to divest of its net assets in the barnett shale field in north texas. in september 2014, the company completed the sale of its barnett shale net assets for cash proceeds of $150 million , including normal closing adjustments. alaska. during the fourth quarter of 2013, the company committed to a plan to sell 100 percent of the capital stock in pioneer's alaska subsidiary ("pioneer alaska"). in april 2014, the company completed the sale of pioneer alaska for cash proceeds of $267 million , including normal closing and other adjustments. south africa. during the first quarter of 2012, the company agreed to sell its net assets in south africa ("pioneer south africa"), effective january 1, 2012, for $60 million of cash proceeds before normal closing and other adjustments, and the buyer's assumption of certain liabilities of the company's south africa subsidiaries. in august 2012, the company completed the sale of pioneer south africa for cash proceeds of $16 million , including normal closing adjustments for cash revenues and costs and expenses from the effective date through the date of the sale. the company has reflected its hugoton, barnett shale, pioneer alaska and pioneer south africa results of operations as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. sendero. during december 2013, the company committed to a plan to sell the company's majority interest in sendero drilling company, llc ("sendero") to sendero's minority interest owner. at december 31, 2013, the assets and liabilities of sendero were classified as held for sale at their estimated fair value. in march 2014, the company completed the sale of sendero for cash proceeds of $31 million . as part of the sales agreement, the company committed to lease from sendero 12 vertical rigs through december 31, 2015 and eight vertical rigs in 2016. southern wolfcamp. in january 2013, the company signed an agreement with sinochem petroleum usa llc ("sinochem") to sell 40 percent of pioneer's interest in 207,000 net acres leased by the company in the horizontal wolfcamp shale play in the southern portion of the spraberry field in west texas for consideration of $1.8 billion. in may 2013, the company completed the sale for cash proceeds of $624 million, which resulted in a gain of $181 million related to the unproved property interests conveyed to sinochem. sinochem is paying the remaining $1.2 billion of the transaction price by carrying 75 percent of pioneer's portion of ongoing drilling and facilities costs attributable to the company's joint operations with sinochem in the southern portion of the horizontal wolfcamp shale play. at december 31, 2014, the unused carry balance totaled $575 million. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. see notes c and d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's asset divestitures, impairments and discontinued operations. also see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for discussion of risk factors associated with the completion of divestitures. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2014, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp ( 24 percent ), occidental energy marketing inc. ( 13 percent ), enterprise products partners l.p. ( 11 percent ) and valero marketing and supply company ( 10 percent ). the company believes the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about significant customer and infrastructure capacity risks. derivative risk management activities. the company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. the company also, from time to time, utilizes interest rate derivative contracts to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the company's indebtedness. the company accounts for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ("mtm") method of accounting. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's derivative risk management activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , as well as the company's open commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2014 , and subsequent changes to these positions. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. some of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the company's common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. numerous governmental entities, including the u.s. environmental protection agency (the "epa") and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance and imposing sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, for any failure to comply. these laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling or other regulated activity commences; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in noncompliance with permits; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that may be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; impose specific criteria addressing worker protection; require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; and 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. these laws and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, the u.s. congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may adversely affect the environment. any changes that result in more stringent and costly drilling, completion, construction or water management activities, or waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant effect on the company's capital and operating costs. the following is a summary of some of the more significant laws and regulations to which the company's business operations are or may be subject. these laws may be amended from time to time. waste handling. the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the auspices of the epa, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. while drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under rcra's non-hazardous waste provisions, it is possible that such exploration and production wastes may, in the future, be classified as hazardous wastes. any such change could result in an increase in the company's costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. in the course of its operations, the company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm") may also be generated in connection with the company's operations. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the federal occupational safety and health administration ("osha"). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection, with respect to norm, the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste, the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm and restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act. the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. cercla also authorizes the epa and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. certain of these properties have had historical petroleum spills or releases. all of such properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. if a surface spill or release were to occur, the company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of state oil and gas commissions and by using the company's spill prevention, control and countermeasure ("spcc") plans or other spill or emergency contingency plans that it maintains in accordance with epa requirements. water discharges and use. the federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act (the "cwa"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states and state waters. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spcc planning requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act ("opa"), which amends the cwa and sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. if an oil spill subject to the requirements of opa were to occur at a company property, the company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of opa and by using the company's opa spill response plan together with the assistance of trained first responders and any oil spill response contractor that the company would have engaged pursuant to opa to address such oil spills. fluids associated with oil and gas production, consisting primarily of salt water, result from operations on the company's properties and are disposed by injection in underground disposal wells. these disposal wells are regulated pursuant to the underground injection control ("uic") program established under the federal safe drinking water act ("sdwa") and analogous state and local laws. the uic program requires permits from the epa or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of the company's disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company's properties substantially comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new disposal wells in the future may affect the company's ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the company's operations. for example, there exists a growing concern that the injection of salt water and other fluids into underground disposal wells triggers seismic activity in certain areas, including in some parts of texas, where the company operates. in response to these concerns, in october 2014, the texas railroad commission (the "trc") published a final rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. if the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the injected fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the trc may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. these new seismic permitting requirements applicable to disposal wells impose more stringent permitting requirements and are likely to result in added costs to comply or perhaps may require alternative methods of disposing of salt water and other fluids, which could delay production schedules and also result in increased costs. the company also uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in virtually all of its drilling and completion programs, and development of its properties is dependent on the company's ability to hydraulically fracture the producing formations. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, the epa has issued final clean air act regulations governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing; announced its intent to propose in the first half of 2015 effluent limit guidelines that wastewater from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and issued in may 2014 a prepublication of its advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding toxic substances control act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. also, in may 2013, the federal bureau of land management (the "blm") issued a revised proposed rule containing disclosure requirements and other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands, and the agency is now analyzing comments to the proposed rulemaking and is expected to promulgate a final rule in the first half of 2015. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition to any actions by the u.s. congress, certain states in which the company operates, including colorado and texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. states could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, as governor andrew cuomo of the state of new york announced in december 2014 with regard to fracturing activities in new york. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. for example, in response to concerns regarding hydraulic fracturing, the city of denton, texas issued a moratorium on the issuance of new drilling permits inside the denton city limits.the company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. nonetheless, in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. certain governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. also, the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and a draft report is expected to be available for public comments and peer review in the first half of 2015. these existing or any future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing. the water produced by the company's cbm operations also may be subject to the state laws and regulations of regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. nevertheless, in 2009, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state court holding that water produced in connection with the cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. the colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this ruling. these and other resulting changes in the regulation of water produced from cbm operations may have an adverse effect on the costs of doing business and the ability to expand operations by the company or other cbm producers. air emissions. the clean air act (the "caa") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions, obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations, or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. moreover, states may impose their own air emissions limitations, which may be more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. the adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing oil and gas drilling and operating activities in the areas where the company conducts business that result in more stringent emissions standards could increase the company's costs or reduce its volume of production, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and cash flows. moreover, permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for oil and gas exploration and production operations. for example, in 2012, the epa published final rules under the caa that subject oil and gas production, processing, transmission and storage operations to regulation under the new source performance standards and national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants programs. with regard to production activities, these final rules require, among other things, the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from certain fractured and refractured gas wells by using reduced emission completions, also known as "green completions," after january 1, 2015. these regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from certain production-related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, pneumatic controllers and storage vessels. compliance with these requirements could increase the company's costs of development and production, which costs could be significant. endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the "esa") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the esa. some of the company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. the presence of a protected species in areas where the company performs activities could result in increased costs or limitations on the company's ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the company's business. moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2011, the u.s. fish and wildlife service (the "fws") is required to make a determination on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. the designation of previously 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company operates could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the company's drilling and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce its reserves. for example, on march 27, 2014, the fws announced the listing of the lesser prairie chicken, whose habitat is over a five-state region, including texas and colorado, where the company conducts operations, as a threatened species under the esa. however, the fws also announced a final rule that will limit regulatory impacts on landowners and businesses from the listing if those landowners and businesses have entered into certain range-wide conservation planning agreements, such as those developed by the western association of fish and wildlife agencies ("wafwa"), pursuant to which such parties, including the company, agreed to take steps to protect the lesser prairie chicken's habitat and to pay a mitigation fee if its actions harm the lesser prairie chicken's habitat. the listing of the lesser prairie chicken as a threatened species or, alternatively, entry into certain range-wide conservation planning agreements such as wafwa, could result in increased costs to the company from species protection measures, time delays or limitations on the company's activities, which costs, delays or limitations may be significant to the company's business. activities on federal lands. oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands, including indian lands and lands administered by the blm, are subject to the national environmental policy act ("nepa"). nepa requires federal agencies, including the blm, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. in the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an environmental assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact statement that may be made available for public review and comment. currently, the company has minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands. however, for those current activities as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of nepa are required. this process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of oil and gas projects. authorizations under nepa are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. occupational health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osha hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. in addition, the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable standards and with osha and comparable requirements. climate change. in 2009, the epa published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ("ghgs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has adopted regulations under the caa that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the prevention of significant deterioration ("psd") of air quality by ghg emissions from large stationary sources that already may be potential sources of other regulated pollutant emissions. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs from such sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which includes certain of the company's facilities. the company is monitoring ghg emissions from its operations in accordance with these ghg emissions reporting rules and believes its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. while the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce ghg emissions at the federal level in recent years. in the absence of federal climate legislation in the united states, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing ghg emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of ghg emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those ghgs. the adoption of any legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. for example, pursuant to president obama's strategy to reduce methane emissions, the obama administration announced on january 14, 2015 that the epa is expected to propose in the summer of 2015 and finalize in 2016 new regulations that will set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and gas processing and transmission facilities as part of the administration's efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). ferc endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ("epact 2005") it is unlawful for "any entity," including producers such as the company, that are otherwise not subject to ferc's jurisdiction under the natural gas act (the "nga"), to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. ferc's rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation of the nga or the natural gas policy act of 1978. the anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of entities not otherwise subject to ferc's jurisdiction to the extent the activities are conducted "in connection with" gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to ferc jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under order 704 (defined below). 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in december 2007, ferc issued a final rule on the annual gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing ("order 704"). under order 704, any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to ferc on form no. 552 on may 1 of each year. form no. 552 contains aggregate volumes of gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. it is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of order 704. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the u.s. congress, ferc, state regulatory bodies and the courts. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. the company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken in a materially different way than other gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which it competes. natural gas processing . the company's gas processing operations are not subject to ferc or state regulation. there can be no assurance that the company's processing operations will continue to be exempt from regulation in the future. however, although the processing facilities may not be directly related, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the company's processing business. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc's jurisdiction. the company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests ferc has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. there is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. moreover, the distinction between ferc-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by ferc and the courts. thus, the company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by these changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngls . the liquids industry is also extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to ferc jurisdiction under the interstate commerce act (the "ica"). the company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. the ica requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with ferc. the tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. the ica requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before ferc. rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by ferc primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by ferc. for the five-year period beginning in 2010, ferc established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent. this adjustment is subject to review every five years. under ferc's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the company. in addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the company. any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. however, the company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly-situated competitors. 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. the basis for intrastate liquids pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate liquids pipeline rates, varies from state to state. the company believes that the regulation of liquids pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly-situated competitors. in november 2009, the federal trade commission (the "ftc") issued regulations pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day. in july 2010, the u.s. congress passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, which incorporated an expansion of the authority of the commodity futures trading commission (the "cftc") to prohibit market manipulation in the markets regulated by the cftc. this authority, with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts, is similar to the anti-manipulation authority granted to the ferc with respect to anti-manipulation in the gas industry and the ftc with respect to oil purchases and sales, as described above. in july 2011, the cftc issued final rules to implement their new anti-manipulation authority. the rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. energy commodity prices . sales prices of oil, condensate, ngls and gas are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the u.s. congress historically has been active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the u.s. congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company's transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngls and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices, and the united states gulf coast; oil, ngl and gas inventory levels in the united states; the capacity of u.s. refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including laws, regulations and administrative policies that restrict the export of the company's products; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for the five years ended december 31, 2014, oil prices fluctuated from a high of $113.93 per bbl in 2011 to a low of $53.27 per bbl in 2014, while gas prices fluctuated from a low of $1.91 per mcf in 2012 to a high of $6.15 per mcf in 2014. recently, commodity prices have declined significantly. through february 13, 2015, oil prices have declined from a high of $107.26 per bbl on june 20, 2014 to $44.45 per bbl on january 28, 2015, and gas prices have declined from a high of $6.15 per mcf on february 19, 2014 to a low of $2.58 per mcf on february 6, 2015. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngls and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes. 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2015 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. recently, commodity prices have declined significantly. through february 13, 2015, oil prices have declined from a high of $107.26 per bbl on june 20, 2014 to $44.45 per bbl on january 28, 2015, and gas prices have declined from a high of $6.15 per mcf on february 19, 2014 to a low of $2.58 per mcf on february 6, 2015. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. as stated above, price declines, as have occurred recently, could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. it is possible that prices could decline further, or the company's estimates of production or other economic factors could change to such an extent that the company may be required to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. see note d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's impairments. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2014 , the company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $159 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, and contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2014 , the company carried goodwill of $272 million . goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company's market capitalization, (e) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2014 , the company owned interests in six gas processing plants and eight treating facilities. the company is the operator of one of the gas processing plants and all eight of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering norm, and unauthorized discharges of toxic gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide fracture stimulation, water distribution and disposal and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. the results of drilling in emerging areas are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2014 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 89 mmbbls of oil, 42 mmbbls of ngls and 317 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel and drilling results. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngls and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing and fractionation facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. for example, following hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the shutdown of the texas gulf coast ngl fractionators. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, refining or processing facilities, or lack of capacity on such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with gas pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with an interstate pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngls and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas in which industry activity had increased rapidly, particularly in the spraberry field in west texas and the eagle ford shale play in south texas. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, had increased, as did the costs for those items. in addition, hydraulic fracturing and other operations require significant quantities of water, which supply may be affected by drought conditions. in late 2014, commodity prices began to decline and the demand for goods and services has subsided due to reduced activity in these areas. to the extent that commodity prices improve in the future, any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the company to resume or increase its development activities, including the result of any changes in laws or regulations applicable to the company's operations relating to water usage, could result in oil and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. under u.s. law and regulations, the export of oil and certain condensates is restricted. absent a change in this law or an expansion of u.s. refining capacity, rising u.s. production of oil and condensates could result in a surplus of these products, which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. in such circumstances, the returns on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the nature of the company's assets and production operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the oil and gas business involves the production, handling, sale and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of substances or gases, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductible associated with obtaining such insurance. a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company's operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations and no assurance can be given that continued compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. the company could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that occurs at its properties or as a result of its operations. there is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the company's operations due to its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, the risk of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and operations and waste disposal practices by prior owners and operators. the company currently owns, leases or operates properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties and could be released during future operations. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance or other sources of contractual indemnity. the company's credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and maintains a credit facility that is currently undrawn. the terms of the company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note g of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's outstanding debt as of december 31, 2014 and the terms associated therewith. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. the company faces significant competition, and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop its properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding competition. 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. the company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection that may cause it to incur substantial costs. for example, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state water court holding that water produced in connection with cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing permits, possible uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. as another example, the underground injection well program under the sdwa requires permits from the epa or an analogous state agency for the company's disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. in some areas of texas, there has been concern that certain formations into which disposal wells are injecting produced waters could become over-pressured after many years of injection, and the governing texas regulatory agency is reviewing the data to determine whether any action is necessary to address this issue. if the texas state agency were to decline to issue permits for, or limit the volumes of, new injection wells into the formations currently utilized by the company, the company may be required to seek alternative methods of disposing of produced waters, including injecting into deeper formations, which could increase its costs. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company's business and operations, including that the company may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut in production pending compliance. see "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding government regulation. the company's sales of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. ferc, the ftc and the cftc hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company's business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company's physical sales of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely affected. in addition, the company's forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. the company's business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, the company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could damage the company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to satisfy their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. since 2010, the economies in the united states and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth and, should these conditions worsen, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company's net revenue and profitability. certain u.s. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. in recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to u.s. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key u.s. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. such tax legislation changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. it is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. the passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in u.s. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could have an adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces. in 2009, the epa published its findings that emissions of ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has adopted regulations under the caa that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the psd of air quality by ghg emissions from large stationary sources that already may be potential sources of other regulated pollutant emissions. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs from such sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the company's facilities. while the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce ghg emissions at the federal level in recent years. in the absence of federal climate legislation in the united states, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing ghg emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of ghg emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those ghgs. the adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of ghgs or otherwise restricts emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax. for example, pursuant to president obama's strategy to reduce methane emissions, the obama administration announced on january 14, 2015, that epa is expected to propose in the summer of 2015 and finalize in 2016 new regulations that will set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and gas processing and transmission facilities as part of the administration's efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations - environmental and occupational health and safety matters - climate change" for additional discussion relating to climate change. the enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") enacted on july 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations for its 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company implementation. in october 2011, the cftc issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. the initial position limits rule was vacated by the united states district court for the district of columbia in september 2012. however, in november 2013, the cftc proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions. as these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the company is uncertain at this time. the cftc has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. the cftc has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. although the company believes it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the company's derivatives. although the cftc has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished or what the effect of any such regulations will be on the company. for example, for uncleared swaps, the cftc or federal banking regulators may require end-users to enter into credit support documentation and/or post initial and variation margin. posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to the company for capital expenditures, therefore reducing its ability to execute derivatives to reduce risk and protect cash flows. the proposed margin rules are not yet final, and therefore the impact of those provisions to the company is uncertain at this time. the full impact of the dodd-frank act and related regulatory requirements upon the company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters and reduce the company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the dodd-frank act and regulations, the company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company's revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. in addition, the european union and other non-u.s. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. to the extent the company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. at this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, the epa has issued final caa regulations governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing; announced its intent to propose in the first half of 2015 effluent limit guidelines that wastewater from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and issued in may 2014 a prepublication of its advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding toxic substances control act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. also, in may 2013, the blm issued a revised proposed rule containing disclosure requirements and other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands and the agency is now analyzing comments to the proposed rulemaking and is expected to promulgate a final rule in the first half of 2015. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition, certain states in which the company operates, including colorado and texas have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. states could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, as governor andrew cuomo of the state of new york announced in december 2014 with regard to fracturing activities in new york. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. for example, in response to concerns regarding hydraulic fracturing, the city of denton, texas issued a moratorium on the issuance of new drilling permits inside the denton city limits. in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. certain governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and a draft report is expected to be available for public comment and peer review in the first half of 2015. these existing or any future studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations - environmental and occupational health and safety matters" for additional discussion related to environmental risks associated with the company's hydraulic fracturing activities. laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs. various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. these statutes include the esa, the migratory bird treaty act, the cwa, opa and cercla. the fws may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. for example, on march 27, 2014, the fws announced the listing of the lesser prairie chicken as a threatened species under the esa. the lesser prairies chicken's habitat is over a five-state region, including texas and colorado, where we conduct operations. a critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2011, the fws is required to make a determination on the listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays or limitations on its development and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. provisions of the company's charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. provisions in the company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company's board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. the company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance. ownership of industrial sand mining operations is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the company's control. these risks include: unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures; cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls; unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions; inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change; environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants; changes in laws and regulations; inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights; restrictions on blasting operations; inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts; reduction in the amount of water available for processing; technical difficulties or failures; 28 table of contents pioneer natural resources company labor disputes; late delivery of supplies; fires, explosions or other accidents; and facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions. any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. not all of these risks are insurable, and the company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. the company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated. the company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are periodically reviewed by outside firms. however, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the company's control. estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as: geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience; assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. the company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, ghg emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, hazardous materials and natural resources. some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the cercla, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of hazardous materials or otherwise conduct the company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. in addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. the company's continued compliance with existing or future laws and regulations could restrict the company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations. any failure by the company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely affect the company, including: issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations; imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; and requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. in addition to environmental regulation, the company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the u.s. mining safety and health administration, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. 29 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the company's sand mining operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. the company's failure to comply with such standards, or changes in such standards or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive other regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities. in addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. also, the company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits, water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility. in order to obtain permits and renewals of permits in the future for its sand mining operations, the company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. obtaining or renewing required permits may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the company's control. a decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations and the company may not be able to renew or obtain permits in the future. the company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company. the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. there is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. these health risks have been a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. the actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. premier silica is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of premier silica's commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. as of december 31, 2014 , premier silica was the subject of silica exposure claims from approximately 575 plaintiffs, the great majority of which claims have been inactive for many years due to the plaintiffs' failure to meet specific legal requirements to advance their claims. almost all of the claims pending against premier silica arise out of the alleged use of premier silica's sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of texas and missouri, although some cases have been brought in many other jurisdictions over the years. it is possible that premier silica will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. in addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the company's other operations, including it hydraulic fracturing operations. any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative disclosures 62 qualitative disclosures 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd." the company is a delaware corporation formed in 1997. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in denver, colorado and midland, texas. at december 31, 2014 , the company had 4,075 employees, 1,795 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 848 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses material information from time to time in its press releases, at annual meetings of stockholders, in publicly accessible conferences and investor presentations, and through its website (principally in the investors pages). mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford shale play; the west panhandle gas and liquids field; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are 98 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2014 . business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. north american oil prices had been fairly stable during the past three years despite the significant increase in united states oil production from unconventional shale plays. during such time, the growth in north american oil production had been offset by reduced oil imports, keeping supply and demand fairly balanced in the united states. on an international level, the geopolitical factors negatively impacting international oil supplies were offset by the decline in united states imports, resulting in generally stable world oil prices. during the second half of 2014, however, as united states production continued to surge, worldwide demand was sluggish, reflecting the decline in the chinese growth rate, the lingering recession in europe and weaker economic performance in other regions, resulting in a worldwide oversupply of oil and oil price weakness. during the fourth quarter of 2014, members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") decided to maintain production quotas at current levels despite production outpacing demand. this caused oil prices, which had already been declining, to decrease significantly in december 2014. the market oversupply of oil is expected to continue in 2015, with oil prices expected to remain under pressure. the growth of unconventional shale drilling has also substantially increased the supply of ngls, resulting 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in a significant decline in ngl component prices as the supply of such products has grown. while more export facilities have been built and ngl exports are increasing, the overall united states demand for ngl products has not kept pace with the supply of such products; consequently, prices for ngl products have generally declined over the past three years. north american gas prices have remained volatile and they trended lower from 2009 through 2012, but improved steadily throughout 2013 and 2014 before dropping significantly in the fourth quarter of 2014. the decline in north american gas prices from 2009 through 2012 was primarily a result of significant discoveries of gas and associated gas reserves in united states gas, oil and liquid-rich shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal winters, which resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the united states. the increases in gas prices during the latter part of 2013 and the majority of 2014 were primarily related to reduced drilling activity in gas shale plays and demand increases as a result of colder late 2013 and early 2014 winter weather, which reduced storage levels. the recent gas price decrease during the fourth quarter of 2014 reflects expectations for a warmer than normal winter, which is expected to result in gas storage levels being higher than normal at the end of the winter draw season and an expectation that there will be an oversupply of gas during 2015. oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals. recent increases in united states oil, ngl and gas production volumes from the permian basin, eagle ford, bakken, marcellus and utica areas have been met with lower demand, the decades-old ban on oil exports, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations. these factors have led to a reduction in united states nymex oil, ngl and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including brent oil prices. since 2010, the economies in the united states and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. while the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery remains cautiously optimistic, its timing and strength is still uncertain; therefore, the likelihood of a sustained recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2015. significant factors that will affect 2015 commodity prices include: the impact of announced capital spending decreases on forecasted united states oil, ngl and gas supplies; the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; the capacity of united states refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; potential export regulatory changes in the united states; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including gas storage levels that are anticipated to be higher than normal at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2015, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2014, the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp ( 24 percent ), occidental energy marketing inc. ( 13 percent ), enterprise products partners l.p. ( 11 percent ) and valero marketing and supply company ( 10 percent ). the company believes the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngls and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices, and the united states gulf coast; oil, ngl and gas inventory levels in the united states; the capacity of u.s. refiners to absorb increasing domestic supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including laws, regulations and administrative policies that restrict the export of the company's products; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for the five years ended december 31, 2014, oil prices fluctuated from a high of $113.93 per bbl in 2011 to a low of $53.27 per bbl in 2014, while gas prices fluctuated from a low of $1.91 per mcf in 2012 to a high of $6.15 per mcf in 2014. recently, commodity prices have declined significantly. through february 13, 2015, oil prices have declined from a high of $107.26 per bbl on june 20, 2014 to $44.45 per bbl on january 28, 2015, and gas prices have declined from a high of $6.15 per mcf on february 19, 2014 to a low of $2.58 per mcf on february 6, 2015. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngls and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes. 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2015 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. recently, commodity prices have declined significantly. through february 13, 2015, oil prices have declined from a high of $107.26 per bbl on june 20, 2014 to $44.45 per bbl on january 28, 2015, and gas prices have declined from a high of $6.15 per mcf on february 19, 2014 to a low of $2.58 per mcf on february 6, 2015. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. as stated above, price declines, as have occurred recently, could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. it is possible that prices could decline further, or the company's estimates of production or other economic factors could change to such an extent that the company may be required to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. see note d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations. the amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. (b) see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2014 , and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. the fair values of the company's long-term debt and derivative contracts are determined based on observable inputs and utilizing the company's valuation models and applications. as of december 31, 2014 , the company was a party to commodity swap contracts, interest rate swap contracts, commodity collar contracts and commodity collar contracts with short put options. see notes d and e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 17 risk factors," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd." the company is a delaware corporation formed in 1997. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains another office in midland, texas. at december 31, 2015 , the company had 3,732 employees, 1,533 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 853 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisition and divestiture activities. these strategies are primarily anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying the spraberry/wolfcamp field is 70 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2015 . complementing this growth area, the company has oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the following areas: the liquid-rich eagle ford shale play located in south texas; the raton gas field located in southern colorado; the west panhandle gas and liquids field located in the texas panhandle; and the edwards gas field located in south texas. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. until the middle of 2014, north american oil prices had been fairly stable despite the significant increase in united states oil production from unconventional shale plays. during such time, the growth in north american oil production had been offset by reduced oil imports, keeping supply and demand fairly balanced in the united states. on an international level, the geopolitical factors negatively impacting international oil supplies were offset by the decline in exports to 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the united states, resulting in generally stable world oil prices. during the second half of 2014, however, as united states production continued to surge, worldwide demand was sluggish, reflecting the decline in the chinese growth rate, the lingering recession in europe and weaker economic performance in other regions, resulting in a worldwide oversupply of oil and oil price weakness. during the fourth quarter of 2014, members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") decided to maintain production quotas at current levels despite production outpacing demand. this caused oil prices, which had already been declining, to decrease significantly in december 2014. the market oversupply of oil continued in 2015, resulting in further declines in oil prices, and the supply of oil in 2016 is expected to continue to outpace demand growth, with worldwide storage levels continuing to increase. with major world producers expecting to continue producing at current levels and the re-introduction of iranian supplies previously subject to international sanctions, oil prices are expected to remain under pressure during 2016. the growth of unconventional shale drilling has also substantially increased the supply of ngls, resulting in a significant decline in ngl component prices as the supply of such products has grown. while more export facilities have been built and ngl exports are increasing, the overall united states demand for ngl products has not kept pace with the supply of such products; consequently, prices for ngl products have generally declined over the past three years. ngl product supplies are expected to remain at elevated levels during 2016, which is expected to keep ngl prices under pressure during 2016. the decline in north american gas prices from 2009 through 2012 was primarily a result of significant discoveries of gas and associated gas reserves in united states gas, oil and liquid-rich shale plays, combined with minimal economic demand growth in the united states. the increases in gas prices during the latter part of 2013 and the first nine months of 2014 were primarily related to reduced drilling activity in gas shale plays coupled with demand increases associated with colder winter weather, which resulted in reduced gas storage levels during 2014. gas prices began decreasing in the fourth quarter of 2014 and continued to decline throughout 2015 and into 2016 as a result of supply increases and warmer than normal winter weather, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historical highs. the current oversupply of gas is expected to continue during 2016. oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals. recent increases in united states oil, ngl and gas production volumes from the permian basin, eagle ford, bakken, marcellus and utica areas have been met with lower demand, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations. these factors led to a reduction during 2015 in united states nymex oil, ngl and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including brent oil prices, although united states and international prices have recently converged as a result of the lifting of the united states oil export ban in december 2015. since 2010, the united states economy, along with the economies of a few other countries, has generally been stable, achieving modest improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. consequently, the worldwide economy has remained sluggish despite multiple stimulus packages being enacted by various governments. the outlook for a worldwide economic recovery remains uncertain; therefore, the likelihood of a sustained recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2016. significant factors that will affect 2016 commodity prices include: the impact of announced capital spending decreases on forecasted united states oil, ngl and gas supplies; the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations are willing or able to manage oil supply through export quotas; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including gas storage levels that are anticipated to be higher than normal at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2016, the lower commodity price environment has resulted in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and a reduction in the prices at which the company is able to enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows have been negatively impacted by the reduction in commodity prices and are expected to continue to be impacted until commodity prices improve. if commodity prices remain at current levels or decline further, the company could experience a shortfall in expected future cash flows, which could negatively affect the company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's open derivative positions as of december 31, 2015 , and subsequent changes to these positions. 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company. the company's growth plan is primarily anchored by horizontal drilling in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas. complementing this growth area, the company has oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the liquid-rich eagle ford shale field located in south texas, the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the west panhandle gas and liquids field located in the texas panhandle and the edwards gas field located in south texas. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced and diversified among oil, ngl and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. the company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the company believes are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2015 , the company's production from continuing operations of 74 mmboe, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 12 percent increase over production from continuing operations during 2014 . production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for 2015 , 2014 and 2013 is set forth in "item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data." development activities. the company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2015 , the company drilled 870 gross (719 net) development wells, with over 99 percent of the wells being successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $3.9 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2015 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 47 mmbbls of oil, 15 mmbbls of ngls and 157 bcf of gas. the company believes that its proved reserves provide a meaningful portfolio of development opportunities. the timing of the development of these proved reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1a. risk factors exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves" below. integrated services. the company continues to utilize its integrated services to control well costs and operating costs in addition to supporting the execution of its drilling and production activities. the company owns fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 450,000 horsepower that support its drilling operations . the company also owns other field service equipment that support its drilling and production operations, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. in addition, premier silica (the company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary) is supplying high-quality and logistically advantaged brown sand for proppant, which is being used by the company to fracture stimulate horizontal wells in the spraberry/wolfcamp field. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , the company spent $36 million , $104 million and $76 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities. in december 2014, the company acquired the remaining limited partner interests in five affiliated partnerships for $54 million and caused the partnerships to be merged with and into the company. in addition, in december 2013, the company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding common units of pioneer southwest not already owned by the company in exchange for 3.96 million shares of the company's common stock through a merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company into pioneer southwest, the result of which was that pioneer southwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. see "item 1a. risk factors 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business." asset divestitures and discontinued operations. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company's objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. efs midstream. in july 2015, the company completed the sale of its 50.1 percent equity interest in efs midstream llc ("efs midstream") to an unaffiliated third party, with the company receiving total consideration of $1.0 billion , of which $530 million was received at closing and the remaining approximately $500 million will be received in july 2016. sendero. in march 2014, the company completed the sale of its majority interest in sendero drilling company, llc ("sendero") to sendero's minority interest owner for cash proceeds of $31 million . as part of the sales agreement, the company committed to lease from sendero 12 vertical rigs through december 31, 2015 and eight vertical rigs in 2016. southern wolfcamp. in january 2013, the company signed an agreement with sinochem petroleum usa llc ("sinochem") to sell 40 percent of pioneer's interest in 207,000 net acres leased by the company in the horizontal wolfcamp shale play in the southern portion of the spraberry field in west texas for consideration of $1.8 billion. in may 2013, the company completed the sale for cash proceeds of $624 million, which resulted in a gain of $181 million related to the unproved property interests conveyed to sinochem. sinochem has been paying the remaining $1.2 billion of the transaction price by carrying 75 percent of pioneer's portion of ongoing drilling and facilities costs attributable to the company's joint operations with sinochem in the southern portion of the horizontal wolfcamp shale play. at december 31, 2015, the unused carry balance totaled $197 million . asset divestitures reflected as discontinued operations. during 2014, the company completed the sale of (i) its net assets in the hugoton field in southwest kansas for cash proceeds of $328 million , (ii) its net assets in the barnett shale field in north texas for cash proceeds of $150 million and (iii) 100 percent of its capital stock in pioneer's alaska subsidiary ("pioneer alaska") for cash proceeds of $267 million . the company has reflected the results of operations of its hugoton assets, its barnett shale assets and pioneer alaska (prior to their sale) as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. see notes c and d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's asset divestitures, impairments and discontinued operations. also see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for a discussion of risk factors associated with the completion of divestitures. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion regarding price risk. significant purchasers. during 2015 , the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp ( 22 percent ), occidental energy marketing inc. ( 18 percent ), vitol, inc. ( 18 percent ) and enterprise product partners l.p. ( 12 percent ). the company believes the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about significant customer and infrastructure capacity risks. derivative risk management activities. the company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. the company also, from time to time, utilizes interest rate derivative contracts to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the company's indebtedness. the company accounts for its derivative contracts using the 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company mark-to-market ("mtm") method of accounting. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's derivative risk management activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , as well as the company's open commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2015 , and subsequent changes to those positions. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company's growth. the company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. some of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect commodity prices or the degree to which commodity prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the company's common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. numerous governmental entities, including the u.s. environmental protection agency (the "epa") and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, which may cause the company to incur significant capital expenditures or take costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance. failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any underlying permits may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations; the occurrence of delays in the permitting, development or expansion of projects; and the issuance of injunctive relief limiting or prohibiting company activities. these laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling or other regulated activity commences; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that may be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; impose specific criteria addressing worker protection; require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. these laws and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, the u.s. congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company activities that may adversely affect the environment. any such changes that result in delays or restrictions in permitting, or more stringent and costly drilling, completion, construction or water management activities, or waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements could have a significant effect on the company's capital and operating costs. the following is a summary of some of the more significant laws and regulations, which may be amended from time to time, to which the company's business operations are or may be subject. waste handling. the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the authority delegated by the epa, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. while drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently excluded from regulation as hazardous wastes and instead are regulated under rcra's non-hazardous waste provisions, it is possible that in the future such exclusion may be legally challenged or such excluded wastes classified as hazardous wastes. for example, in august 2015, several non-governmental organizations filed notice of intent to sue the epa under rcra for, among other things, the agency's alleged failure to reconsider whether such exclusion should continue to apply. any removal of this exclusion could result in an increase in the company's costs to manage and dispose of these wastes as hazardous wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. in the course of its operations, the company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm") may also be generated in connection with the company's operations. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the federal occupational safety and health administration ("osha"). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection, with respect to norm, the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste, the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm and restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. hazardous substance releases. the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. cercla also authorizes the epa and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. certain of these properties have had historical petroleum spills or releases. all of such properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. if a surface spill or release were to occur, the company expects that it would be controlled, contained and remediated in accordance with the applicable requirements of state oil and gas commissions and by using the company's spill prevention, control and countermeasure ("spcc") plans or other spill or emergency contingency plans that it maintains in accordance with epa requirements. water discharges and use. the federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act (the "cwa"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states and state waters. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spcc planning requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as require remedial or mitigation measures, for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. in may 2015, the epa issued a final rule that attempts to clarify the federal jurisdictional reach over waters of the united states but this rule has been stayed nationwide by the u.s. sixth circuit court of appeals as that appellate court and numerous district courts consider lawsuits opposing implementation of the rule. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act ("opa"), which amends the cwa and sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be held strictly liable for oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. opa also requires owners or operators of certain onshore facilities to prepare facility response plans for responding to a worst-case discharge of oil into waters of the united states. fluids associated with oil and gas production from the company's properties, consisting primarily of salt water, are generally disposed by injection in underground disposal wells. these disposal wells are regulated pursuant to the underground injection control ("uic") program established under the federal safe drinking water act ("sdwa") and analogous state laws. the uic program requires permits from the epa or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of the company's disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company's properties substantially comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new disposal wells in the future may affect the company's ability to dispose of salt water and other fluids and ultimately increase the cost of the company's operations. for example, there exists a growing concern that the injection of salt water and other fluids into underground disposal wells triggers seismic activity in certain areas, including in some parts of texas and colorado, where the company operates. in texas, the texas railroad commission (the "trc") published a final rule in 2014 governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. if the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the injected fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the trc may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. in colorado, the colorado oil and gas conservation commission (the "cogcc") conducts, as part of the disposal well permit application review process, a review for seismicity that considers area-specific knowledge of earthquakes to assess seismic potential. if historical seismicity has been identified in the vicinity of a proposed disposal well permit application, the cogcc requires an operator to define the seismicity potential and the proximity to faults through geologic and geophysical data prior to any permit approval. with respect to existing disposal wells, in the event that seismic incidents occur in the vicinity of such wells, the cogcc may temporarily shut down such nearby wells and assess whether and to what extent activities at such wells may be linked to the seismic incidents, the results of which assessment could result in further well operating restrictions or even well abandonment, thereby delaying production by the company. the water produced by the company's cbm operations also may be subject to the state laws and regulations of regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. nevertheless, in 2009, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state court holding that water produced in connection with the cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by the colorado state engineer, an agency separate from the cogcc that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. the colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this ruling. these and other resulting changes in the regulation of water produced from cbm operations may have an adverse effect on the costs of doing business and the ability to expand cbm operations by the company or other cbm producers. hydraulic fracturing . the company also uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in virtually all of its drilling and completion programs, and development of its properties is dependent on the company's ability to hydraulically fracture the producing formations. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, in august 2015, the epa issued a proposed rulemaking that would establish new requirements for emissions of methane from certain equipment and processes in the oil and gas source category, including first-time standards to address emissions of methane from hydraulically fractured oil and gas well completions; in april 2015, the epa proposed guidelines that waste water from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and in may 2014, the epa issued a prepublication of its advance notice of proposed rulemaking 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company regarding toxic substances control act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. also, the federal bureau of land management (the "blm") published a final rule in march 2015 that establishes new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and indian lands, but in september 2015, the u.s. district court of wyoming issued a preliminary injunction barring implementation of this rule, which order the blm could appeal and is being separately appealed by certain environmental groups. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. in addition to any actions by the u.s. congress, certain states in which the company operates, including colorado and texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. states could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of new york in 2015. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. for example, several cities in colorado passed temporary or permanent moratoria on hydraulic fracturing within their respective cities' limits in 2012-2013, but since that time, in response to lawsuits brought by an industry trade group, local district courts struck down the ordinances for certain of those colorado cities in 2014, while a suit brought by the industry trade group against at least one other colorado city remains pending. two of the cities whose ordinances were struck down in 2014 were notified in september 2015 by the colorado supreme court that the high court had agreed to hear their appeals. the company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. nonetheless, in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. certain governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. also, the epa conducted a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and, in june 2015, released its draft report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, which report concluded, among other things, that hydraulic fracturing activities have not lead to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources in the united states, although there are above and below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water sources. however, in january 2016, the epa's science advisory board provided its comments on the draft study, indicating its concern that epa's conclusion of no widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources arising from fracturing activities did not reflect the uncertainties and data limitations associated with such impacts, as described in the body of the draft report. the final version of this epa report remains pending and is expected to be completed in 2016. such epa final report, when issued, as well as other studies and initiatives or any future studies, depending on any meaningful results obtained or conclusions drawn, could spur efforts to further regulate hydraulic fracturing. air emissions. the clean air act (the "caa") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations, or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. moreover, states may impose their own air emissions limitations, which may be more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. the adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing oil and gas drilling and operating activities in the areas where the company conducts business that result in more stringent emissions standards could increase the company's costs or reduce its volume of production, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and cash flows. moreover, permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for oil and gas exploration and production operations. for example, in october 2015, the epa issued a final rule under the caa for the purpose of making more stringent the national ambient air quality standard ("naaqs") for ground-level ozone (reducing the standard to 70 parts per billion) under both the primary and secondary standards intended to provide protection of public health and welfare. compliance with this final rule could increase the company's capital expenditures and operating expense by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment or result in longer permitting timelines, which could adversely impact the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the "esa") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the esa. some of the company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. the presence of a protected species in areas where the company performs activities could result in increased costs or limitations on the company's ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the company's business. moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in 2011, the u.s. fish and wildlife service (the "fws") is required to make a determination on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company operates could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the company's drilling and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce its reserves. for example, in april 2014, the fws published a final rule listing the lesser prairie chicken, whose habitat is over a five-state region, including texas and colorado, where the company conducts operations, as a threatened species under the esa. as a result of the 2014 listing of the lesser prairie chicken, the company entered into a range-wide conservation planning agreement, pursuant to which the company agreed to take steps to protect the lesser prairie chicken's habitat and to pay a mitigation fee if its actions harm the lesser prairie chicken's habitat. however, in september 2015, the u.s. district court for the western district of texas vacated the fws's rule listing the lesser prairie chicken in its entirety, concluding that the decision to list the species was arbitrary and capricious. notwithstanding this court decision, the company has continued its participation in the conservation planning agreement. in another example, the fws is considering whether to list the monarch butterfly, whose range includes texas and colorado, under the esa; this listing status remains under review. whether the lesser prairie chicken, the monarch butterfly or other species will be listed in the future under the esa is currently unknown, but any listing of a species under the esa in areas where the company performs activities could result in increased costs to the company from species protection measures, time delays or limitations on the company's activities, which costs, delays or limitations may be significant to the company's business. activities on federal lands. oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands, including indian lands and lands administered by the blm, are subject to the national environmental policy act ("nepa"). nepa requires federal agencies, including the blm, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. in the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an environmental assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact statement that may be made available for public review and comment. currently, the company has minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands. however, for those current activities as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of nepa are required. this process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of oil and gas projects. authorizations under nepa are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. moreover, depending on the mitigation strategies recommended in the environmental assessments, the company could incur added costs, which could be substantial. occupational health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osha hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. in addition, the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. climate change. the epa has made a determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ("ghgs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has adopted regulations under the caa that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the prevention of significant deterioration ("psd") of air quality by ghg emissions from large stationary sources that already may be potential sources of other regulated pollutant emissions. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs from such sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which includes certain of the 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company company's facilities. the company is monitoring ghg emissions from its operations in accordance with these ghg emissions reporting rules. while the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce ghg emissions at the federal level in recent years. in the absence of federal climate legislation in the united states, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing ghg emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of ghg emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those ghgs. the adoption of any legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. for example, in august 2015, the epa announced proposed rules, expected to be finalized in 2016, that would establish new controls for methane emissions from certain new, modified or reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and gas source category, including production activities, as part of an overall effort to reduce methane emissions by up to 45 percent in 2025. on an international level, the united states is one of almost 200 nations that agreed in december 2015 to an international climate change agreement in paris, france that calls for countries to set their own ghg emissions targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its ghg emissions targets. although it is not possible at this time to predict how new methane restrictions would impact the company's business or how or when the united state might impose restrictions on ghgs as a result of the international agreement agreed to in paris, any new legal requirements that impose more stringent requirements on the emission of ghgs from the company's operations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the company can drill. 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). ferc endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ("epact 2005") it is unlawful for "any entity," including producers such as the company, that are otherwise not subject to ferc's jurisdiction under the natural gas act (the "nga"), to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. ferc's rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation of the nga or the natural gas policy act of 1978. the anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of entities not otherwise subject to ferc's jurisdiction to the extent the activities are conducted "in connection with" gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to ferc jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under order 704 (defined below). in december 2007, ferc issued a final rule on the annual gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing ("order 704"). under order 704, any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to ferc on form no. 552 on may 1 of each year. form no. 552 contains aggregate volumes of gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. it is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of order 704. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the u.s. congress, ferc, state regulatory bodies and the courts. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. the company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken in a materially different way than other gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which it competes. natural gas processing . the company's gas processing operations are not subject to ferc or state regulation. there can be no assurance that the company's processing operations will continue to be exempt from regulation in the future. however, although the processing facilities may not be directly related, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the company's processing business. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc's jurisdiction. the company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests ferc has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. there is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. moreover, the distinction between ferc-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by ferc and the courts. thus, the company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by these changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngls . the liquids industry is also extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to ferc jurisdiction under the interstate commerce act (the "ica"). the company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the ica requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with ferc. the tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. the ica requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before ferc. rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by ferc primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by ferc. for the five-year period beginning in july 2011, ferc established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent. this adjustment is subject to review every five years. under ferc's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the company. in addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the company. any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. however, the company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly-situated competitors. intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. the basis for intrastate liquids pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate liquids pipeline rates, varies from state to state. the company believes that the regulation of liquids pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly-situated competitors. in november 2009, the federal trade commission (the "ftc") issued regulations pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day. in july 2010, the u.s. congress passed the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, which incorporated an expansion of the authority of the commodity futures trading commission (the "cftc") to prohibit market manipulation in the markets regulated by the cftc. this authority, with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts, is similar to the anti-manipulation authority granted to the ferc with respect to anti-manipulation in the gas industry and the ftc with respect to oil purchases and sales, as described above. in july 2011, the cftc issued final rules to implement their new anti-manipulation authority. the rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. energy commodity prices . sales prices of oil, condensate, ngls and gas are not currently regulated and sales are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the u.s. congress historically has been active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the u.s. congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company's transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the prices of oil, ngls and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas; worldwide oil, ngl, and gas inventory levels , including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of oil and liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for the five years ended december 31, 2015, oil prices fluctuated from a high of $113.93 per bbl in 2011 to a low of $34.73 per bbl in 2015 while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.15 per mcf in 2014 to a low of $1.76 per mcf in 2015. during 2016, commodity prices have continued to be volatile, with oil prices reaching a low of $26.21 per bbl on february 11, 2016 and gas prices reaching a low of $1.97 per mcf on february 12, 2016. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngls and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2015 declined by 135,078 mboes as compared to proved reserves at december 31, 2014 as a result of the average oil and gas price used to calculate proved reserves for each respective period declining from $94.98 per bbl and $4.35 per mcf in 2014 to $50.11 per bbl and $2.59 per mcf in 2015. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses; the company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company production through 2016, the volumes of protected production for 2017 and future years is substantially less. a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. this could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the company volumes of production forecasted for 2017 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. the company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. even if the company accurately predicts sudden changes, the company's ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. during periods of declining commodity prices, the company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the company's counterparty credit exposure. if any of the company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other governmental or regulatory requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2016 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. recently, commodity prices have declined significantly. from january 1, 2014 through february 12, 2016 , oil prices have declined from a high of $107.26 per bbl on june 20, 2014 to a low of $26.21 per bbl on february 11, 2016, and gas prices have declined from a high of $6.15 per mcf on february 19, 2014 to a low of $1.76 per mcf on december 17, 2015. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. as stated above, price declines, as have occurred recently, could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. it is possible that prices could decline further, or the company's estimates of production or other economic factors could change to such an extent that the company may be required to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2015, the company recognized aggregate impairment charges of $1.1 billion attributable to its eagle ford shale assets, other south texas assets and west panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of texas, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. as another example, while the company determined that the carrying value of its permian basin and west panhandle oil and gas properties were not impaired as of december 31, 2015 based on the company's longer-term commodity price outlook for oil of $52.82 per bbl, the properties may become partially impaired if the average oil price in the company's longer-term commodity 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company price outlooks were to decline by approximately $5.00 to $10.00 per bbl. the company's permian basin and west panhandle oil and gas properties are long-lived assets that had carrying values of $8.7 billion and $67 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2015. if the company's permian basin and west panhandle oil and gas properties were to become impaired in a future period, the company could recognize noncash, pretax impairment charges in that period that could range from $5 billion to $7 billion for the permian basin properties and $40 million to $60 million for the west panhandle properties. in addition, the company could recognize noncash, pretax impairment charges that could range from $500 million to $700 million to reduce the carrying value of its vertical integration assets that provide services for the permian basin assets. the carrying values of those assets are included in "other property and equipment, net" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. also, if the company's longer-term commodity price outlooks were to decline further, it may constitute significant negative evidence as to whether it is more likely than not that all of the company's deferred tax assets can be realized prior to their expirations. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for further information on the company's impairment charges. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2015 , the company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $169 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, and contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2015 , the company carried goodwill of $272 million . goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (i) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (ii) results of drilling activities, (iii) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (iv) changes in the company's market capitalization, (v) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (vi) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. the company's growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, and water distribution and disposal activities, are subject to all the risks incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering norm, and unauthorized discharges of toxic chemicals, gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; uncontrollable flows of oil or gas well fluids; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide fracture stimulation, water distribution and disposal and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2015 , the company owned interests in seven gas processing plants and eight treating facilities. the company is the operator of one of the gas processing plants and all eight of the treating facilities. six of the gas processing plants are operated by third parties and six of the treating facilities are not currently being used. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. the results of drilling in emerging areas are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2015 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 47 mmbbls of oil, 15 mmbbls of ngls and 157 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel and drilling results. there can be no assurance that the company will drill these locations or that the company will be able to produce oil or gas reserves from these locations or any other potential drilling locations. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of the company's total estimated proved reserves at december 31, 2015 were undeveloped, and those proved reserves may not ultimately be developed. at december 31, 2015, approximately 11 percent of the company's total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. recovery of undeveloped proved reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. the company's reserve data assumes that the company can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which assumptions may not prove correct. if the company chooses not to spend the capital to develop these proved undeveloped reserves, or if the company is not otherwise able to successfully develop these proved undeveloped reserves, the company will be required to write-off these proved reserves. in addition, under the sec's rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells planned to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, the company may be required to write-off any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this five-year timeframe. as with all oil and gas leases, the company's leases require the company to drill wells that are commercially productive and to maintain the production in paying quantities, and if the company is unsuccessful in drilling such wells and maintaining such production, the company could lose its rights under such leases. the company's future production levels and, therefore, its future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing its proved undeveloped leasehold acreage. 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the level and outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, or should the company's development plans change, actual production could be adversely affected. in addition, the company's forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions. producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates, which vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time as those reserves are produced, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions of additional recoverable reserves. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace its current or future production. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngls and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing and fractionation facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. for example, following hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the shutdown of the texas gulf coast ngl fractionators. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, refining or processing facilities, or lack of capacity on such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with gas pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with an interstate pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngls and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas in which industry activity had increased rapidly, particularly in the spraberry field in west texas and the eagle ford shale play in south texas. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, had increased, as did the costs for those items. in addition, hydraulic fracturing and other operations require significant quantities of 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company water, which supply may be affected by drought conditions. in late 2014, commodity prices began to decline and the demand for goods and services has subsided due to reduced activity in these areas. to the extent that commodity prices improve in the future, any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the company to resume or increase its development activities, including the result of any changes in laws or regulations applicable to the company's operations relating to water usage, could result in oil and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to declining costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. however, such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. absent an expansion of u.s. refining capacity, rising u.s. production of oil and condensates could result in a surplus of these products in the u.s., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. although u.s. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated transportation and other costs. in such circumstances, the returns on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the company's operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those that govern the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection, that could cause it to suspend or curtail its operations or incur substantial costs. the company's operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, permits for the drilling of wells, production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, gas and ngls, worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. to operate in compliance with these laws and regulations, the company must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. for example, owing to concerns that the injection of salt water and other fluids into underground disposal wells regulated under the uic program triggers seismic activity in certain areas, including texas, the trc published a final rule in 2014 governing the permitting or re-permitting of such disposal wells that requires the submission of information on seismic events within a specified radius of the disposal well location in addition to other information intended to demonstrate that the injected fluids are confined to the disposal zone or otherwise not contributing to seismic activity. as another example, in october 2015 the epa issued a final rule under the caa for the purpose of making more stringent the naaqs for ground-level ozone (reducing the standard to 70 parts per billion) under both the primary and secondary standards intended to provide protection of public health and welfare. compliance with these legal requirements or with any future environmental laws or regulations could, among other things, delay, restrict or prohibit the issuance of necessary permits, increase the company's capital expenditures and operating expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, and limit or preclude the use of otherwise available water sources or disposal wells, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. as a third example, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state water court holding in 2009 that water produced in connection with cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring the obtaining of permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. in addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations - environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to regulatory and environmental risks. the nature of the company's assets and production operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and occupational health and safety matters. there is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the company's operations as a result of its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. the company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, transport and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and wastes and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of substances or gases, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. the company currently owns, leases or operates properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties and could be released during future operations. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations - environmental and occupational health and safety matters" above for additional discussion related to environmental and occupational health and safety risks. the company is a party to debt instruments, a credit facility and other financial commitments that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and maintains a credit facility that is currently undrawn. the terms of the company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. the company is also subject to various commitments for leases, drilling contracts, derivative contracts, firm transportation, processing and fractionation, and purchase obligations for services and products. the company's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business including, but not limited to, the following: increasing its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting its ability to fund future development activities or engage in future acquisitions; and placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - capital commitments, capital resources and liquidity" and notes g and j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's outstanding debt and other commitments as of december 31, 2015 and the terms associated therewith. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. a ratings downgrade could adversely impact the company's ability to access debt markets, increase the borrowing cost under the company's credit facility and the cost of future debt, and potentially require the company to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations. 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop its properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. to a lesser extent, the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding competition. the company's sales of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. ferc, the ftc and the cftc hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company's business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company's physical sales of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failures to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a historical 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for future oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company's business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, the company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. costs for insurance may also increase as a result of security threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could damage the company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to satisfy their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. since 2010, the economies in the united states and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth and, should these conditions worsen, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company's cash flows and profitability. changes to u.s. federal income tax legislation could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, or impose new or additional taxes or fees, and such changes could have an adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to u.s. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key u.s. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. such tax legislation changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company certain domestic production activities, (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures and (v) the imposition of new taxes or fees on oil or gas (such as the $10.25 fee per barrel on oil proposed in the president's budget for fiscal year 2017). it is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. the passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in u.s. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, or increase costs, and any such changes could have an adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces. the epa has made a determination that emissions of ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. the epa has adopted regulations under the caa that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the psd of air quality by ghg emissions from large stationary sources that already may be potential sources of other regulated pollutant emissions. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs from such sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the company's facilities. in the absence of any federal climate legislation being adopted in the united states, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing ghg emissions by means of emissions inventories or cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of ghg emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those ghgs. the adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of ghgs or otherwise restricts emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax. for example, in august 2015, the epa announced proposed rules, expected to be finalized in 2016, that would establish new controls for methane emissions from certain new, modified or reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and gas source category, including production activities, as part of an overall effort to reduce methane emissions by up to 45 percent in 2025. on an international level, the united states is one of almost 200 nations that agreed in december 2015 to an international climate change agreement in paris, france that calls for countries to set their own ghg emissions targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its ghg emissions targets. although it is not possible at this time to predict how new methane restrictions would impact the company's business or how or when the united state might impose restrictions on ghgs as a result of the international agreement agreed to in paris, any new legal requirements that impose more stringent requirements on the emission of ghgs from the company's operations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, such new legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. the enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") enacted on july 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations for its implementation. although the cftc has issued final regulations to implement significant aspects of the legislation, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. in october 2011, the cftc issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. the initial position limits rule was vacated by the united states district court for the district of columbia in september 2012. however, in november 2013, the cftc proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain futures and options contracts and equivalent swaps for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions. as these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the company is uncertain at this time. the cftc has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. the cftc has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. although the company believes it 28 table of contents pioneer natural resources company qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, the company may be required to clear such transactions. the ultimate effect of the proposed rules and any additional regulations on the company's business is uncertain. in addition, certain banking regulators and the cftc have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. although the company expects to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps entered into to manage its commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if any of the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, the posting of collateral could reduce its liquidity and cash available for capital expenditures and could reduce its ability to manage commodity price volatility and the volatility in its cash flows. the full impact of the dodd-frank act and related regulatory requirements upon the company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters and reduce the company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the dodd-frank act and regulations, the company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company's revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. in addition, the european union and other non-u.s. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. to the extent the company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. at this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, in august 2015, the epa issued a proposed rulemaking that would establish new requirements for emissions of methane from certain equipment and processes in the oil and gas source category, including first-time standards to address emissions of methane from hydraulically fractured oil and gas well completions; in april 2015, the epa proposed guidelines that waste water from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and in may 2014, the epa issued a prepublication of its advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding toxic substances control act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. also, the blm published a final rule in march 2015 that establishes new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and indian lands, but in september 2015, the u.s. district court of wyoming issued a preliminary injunction barring implementation of this rule, which order the blm could appeal and is being separately appealed by certain environmental groups. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition, certain states in which the company operates, including colorado and texas have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. states could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of new york in 2015. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. for example, several cities in colorado passed temporary or permanent moratoria on hydraulic fracturing within their respective cities' limits in 2012-2013, but since that time, in response to lawsuits brought by an industry trade group, local district courts struck down the ordinances for certain of those colorado cities in 2014, while a suit brought by the industry trade group against at least one other colorado city remains pending. two of the cities whose ordinances were struck down in 2014 were notified in september 2015 by the colorado supreme court that the high court had agreed to hear their appeals. in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the 29 table of contents pioneer natural resources company pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. certain governmental reviews are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. the epa conducted a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, and in june 2015, released its draft report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, which report concluded, among other things, that hydraulic fracturing activities have not led to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources in the united states, although there are above and below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water sources. however, in january 2016, the epa's science advisory board provided its comments on the draft study, indicating its concern that epa's conclusion of no widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water sources arising from fracturing activities did not reflect the uncertainties and data limitations associated with such impacts, as described in the body of the draft report. the final version of this epa report remains pending and is expected to be completed in 2016. such epa final report, when issued, as well as other studies and initiatives or any future studies, depending on any meaningful results obtained or conclusions drawn, could spur efforts to further regulate hydraulic fracturing. laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs. various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. these statutes include the esa, the migratory bird treaty act, the cwa, opa and cercla. the fws may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. for example, in april 2014, the fws listed the lesser prairie chicken as a threatened species under the esa, and the fws is considering whether to list the monarch butterfly. the habitat of both species includes texas and colorado, where the company conducts operations. while the fws's rule listing the lesser prairie chicken has been vacated by a u.s. district court, a critical habitat or suitable habitat designation with respect to a threatened or endangered species could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2011, the fws is required to make a determination on the listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays or limitations on its development and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. provisions of the company's charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. provisions in the company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company's board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. the company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance. ownership of industrial sand mining operations is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the company's control. these risks include: unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures; cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls; unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions; inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change; environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants; changes in laws and regulations; 30 table of contents pioneer natural resources company inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights; restrictions on blasting operations; inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts; reduction in the amount of water available for processing; technical difficulties or failures; labor disputes; late delivery of supplies; fires, explosions or other accidents; and facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions. any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. not all of these risks are insurable, and the company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. the company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated. the company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are periodically reviewed by outside firms. however, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the company's control. estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as: geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience; assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. the company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, ghg emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, hazardous materials and natural resources. some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the cercla, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of hazardous materials or otherwise conduct the company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. in addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. the company's continued compliance with existing or future laws and regulations could restrict the company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations. any failure by the company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely affect the company, including: issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations; imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; and requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. 31 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in addition to environmental regulation, the company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the u.s. mining safety and health administration, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977 and amending legislation, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the company's sand mining operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. this act, as amended, is a strict liability statute and any failure by the company to comply with such existing or any future standards, or any more stringent interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities. in addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. also, the company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits, water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility. in order to obtain permits, renewals of permits or other approvals in the future for its sand mining operations, the company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. obtaining or renewing required permits or approvals may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the company's control. moreover, issuance of any permits, permit renewals or other approvals by governmental agencies may be conditioned on new or modified requirements or procedures with respect to mining that may be costly or time-consuming to implement. a decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations and the company may not be able to renew or obtain permits or other approvals in the future. the company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company. the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. there is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. these health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. the actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. premier silica is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of premier silica's commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. as of december 31, 2015 , premier silica was the subject of silica exposure claims from approximately 420 plaintiffs. the great majority of these claims have been inactive for many years due to the plaintiffs' failure to meet specific legal requirements to advance their claims. almost all of the claims pending against premier silica arise out of the alleged use of premier silica's sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of texas and missouri, although some cases have been brought in many other jurisdictions over the years. it is possible that premier silica will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. in addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the company's other operations, including it hydraulic fracturing operations. any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. 32 table of contents pioneer natural resources company quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative disclosures 62 qualitative disclosures 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. pioneer's common stock is listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd." the company is a delaware corporation formed in 1997. the company's executive offices are located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company's telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains another office in midland, texas. at december 31, 2015 , the company had 3,732 employees, 1,533 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 853 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer's long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisition and divestiture activities. these strategies are primarily anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying the spraberry/wolfcamp field is 70 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2015 . complementing this growth area, the company has oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the following areas: the liquid-rich eagle ford shale play located in south texas; the raton gas field located in southern colorado; the west panhandle gas and liquids field located in the texas panhandle; and the edwards gas field located in south texas. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. until the middle of 2014, north american oil prices had been fairly stable despite the significant increase in united states oil production from unconventional shale plays. during such time, the growth in north american oil production had been offset by reduced oil imports, keeping supply and demand fairly balanced in the united states. on an international level, the geopolitical factors negatively impacting international oil supplies were offset by the decline in exports to 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the united states, resulting in generally stable world oil prices. during the second half of 2014, however, as united states production continued to surge, worldwide demand was sluggish, reflecting the decline in the chinese growth rate, the lingering recession in europe and weaker economic performance in other regions, resulting in a worldwide oversupply of oil and oil price weakness. during the fourth quarter of 2014, members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") decided to maintain production quotas at current levels despite production outpacing demand. this caused oil prices, which had already been declining, to decrease significantly in december 2014. the market oversupply of oil continued in 2015, resulting in further declines in oil prices, and the supply of oil in 2016 is expected to continue to outpace demand growth, with worldwide storage levels continuing to increase. with major world producers expecting to continue producing at current levels and the re-introduction of iranian supplies previously subject to international sanctions, oil prices are expected to remain under pressure during 2016. the growth of unconventional shale drilling has also substantially increased the supply of ngls, resulting in a significant decline in ngl component prices as the supply of such products has grown. while more export facilities have been built and ngl exports are increasing, the overall united states demand for ngl products has not kept pace with the supply of such products; consequently, prices for ngl products have generally declined over the past three years. ngl product supplies are expected to remain at elevated levels during 2016, which is expected to keep ngl prices under pressure during 2016. the decline in north american gas prices from 2009 through 2012 was primarily a result of significant discoveries of gas and associated gas reserves in united states gas, oil and liquid-rich shale plays, combined with minimal economic demand growth in the united states. the increases in gas prices during the latter part of 2013 and the first nine months of 2014 were primarily related to reduced drilling activity in gas shale plays coupled with demand increases associated with colder winter weather, which resulted in reduced gas storage levels during 2014. gas prices began decreasing in the fourth quarter of 2014 and continued to decline throughout 2015 and into 2016 as a result of supply increases and warmer than normal winter weather, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historical highs. the current oversupply of gas is expected to continue during 2016. oil prices continue to be primarily driven by world supply and demand fundamentals. recent increases in united states oil, ngl and gas production volumes from the permian basin, eagle ford, bakken, marcellus and utica areas have been met with lower demand, higher storage levels and pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure capacity limitations. these factors led to a reduction during 2015 in united states nymex oil, ngl and gas prices compared to international prices for similar commodities, including brent oil prices, although united states and international prices have recently converged as a result of the lifting of the united states oil export ban in december 2015. since 2010, the united states economy, along with the economies of a few other countries, has generally been stable, achieving modest improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european and asian nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. consequently, the worldwide economy has remained sluggish despite multiple stimulus packages being enacted by various governments. the outlook for a worldwide economic recovery remains uncertain; therefore, the likelihood of a sustained recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile during 2016. significant factors that will affect 2016 commodity prices include: the impact of announced capital spending decreases on forecasted united states oil, ngl and gas supplies; the ongoing effect of economic stimulus initiatives; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government and potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations are willing or able to manage oil supply through export quotas; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including gas storage levels that are anticipated to be higher than normal at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2016, the lower commodity price environment has resulted in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and a reduction in the prices at which the company is able to enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows have been negatively impacted by the reduction in commodity prices and are expected to continue to be impacted until commodity prices improve. if commodity prices remain at current levels or decline further, the company could experience a shortfall in expected future cash flows, which could negatively affect the company's liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion regarding price risk. significant purchasers. during 2015 , the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp ( 22 percent ), occidental energy marketing inc. ( 18 percent ), vitol, inc. ( 18 percent ) and enterprise product partners l.p. ( 12 percent ). the company believes the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the prices of oil, ngls and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas; worldwide oil, ngl, and gas inventory levels , including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of oil and liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for the five years ended december 31, 2015, oil prices fluctuated from a high of $113.93 per bbl in 2011 to a low of $34.73 per bbl in 2015 while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.15 per mcf in 2014 to a low of $1.76 per mcf in 2015. during 2016, commodity prices have continued to be volatile, with oil prices reaching a low of $26.21 per bbl on february 11, 2016 and gas prices reaching a low of $1.97 per mcf on february 12, 2016. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngls and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2015 declined by 135,078 mboes as compared to proved reserves at december 31, 2014 as a result of the average oil and gas price used to calculate proved reserves for each respective period declining from $94.98 per bbl and $4.35 per mcf in 2014 to $50.11 per bbl and $2.59 per mcf in 2015. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses; the company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company production through 2016, the volumes of protected production for 2017 and future years is substantially less. a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. this could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the company volumes of production forecasted for 2017 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. the company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. even if the company accurately predicts sudden changes, the company's ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. during periods of declining commodity prices, the company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the company's counterparty credit exposure. if any of the company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other governmental or regulatory requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2016 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. recently, commodity prices have declined significantly. from january 1, 2014 through february 12, 2016 , oil prices have declined from a high of $107.26 per bbl on june 20, 2014 to a low of $26.21 per bbl on february 11, 2016, and gas prices have declined from a high of $6.15 per mcf on february 19, 2014 to a low of $1.76 per mcf on december 17, 2015. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. as stated above, price declines, as have occurred recently, could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. it is possible that prices could decline further, or the company's estimates of production or other economic factors could change to such an extent that the company may be required to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2015, the company recognized aggregate impairment charges of $1.1 billion attributable to its eagle ford shale assets, other south texas assets and west panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of texas, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. as another example, while the company determined that the carrying value of its permian basin and west panhandle oil and gas properties were not impaired as of december 31, 2015 based on the company's longer-term commodity price outlook for oil of $52.82 per bbl, the properties may become partially impaired if the average oil price in the company's longer-term commodity 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company price outlooks were to decline by approximately $5.00 to $10.00 per bbl. the company's permian basin and west panhandle oil and gas properties are long-lived assets that had carrying values of $8.7 billion and $67 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2015. if the company's permian basin and west panhandle oil and gas properties were to become impaired in a future period, the company could recognize noncash, pretax impairment charges in that period that could range from $5 billion to $7 billion for the permian basin properties and $40 million to $60 million for the west panhandle properties. in addition, the company could recognize noncash, pretax impairment charges that could range from $500 million to $700 million to reduce the carrying value of its vertical integration assets that provide services for the permian basin assets. the carrying values of those assets are included in "other property and equipment, net" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. also, if the company's longer-term commodity price outlooks were to decline further, it may constitute significant negative evidence as to whether it is more likely than not that all of the company's deferred tax assets can be realized prior to their expirations. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations. the amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. (b) see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2015 , and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. the fair values of the company's long-term debt and derivative contracts are determined based on observable inputs and utilizing the company's valuation models and applications. as of december 31, 2015 , the company was a party to commodity swap contracts and commodity collar contracts with short put options. see notes d and e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 15 risk factors," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer, a delaware corporation formed in 1997, is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, ngls and gas within the united states. the company's common stock has been listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd" since its formation in 1997. the company's principal executive office is located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company also maintains an office in midland, texas and field offices in its areas of operation. at december 31, 2016 , pioneer had 3,604 employees, 1,343 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 947 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to be america's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. the company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives: maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; delivering economic production and reserve growth; enhancing drilling, completion and production activities by utilizing the company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency; and developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner, combined with environmental stewardship through industry-leading sustainable development efforts. these strategies are primarily anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying the spraberry/wolfcamp field is over 75 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2016 . complementing this growth area, the company has oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the following areas: the liquid-rich eagle ford shale play located in south texas; the raton gas field located in southern colorado; the west panhandle gas and liquids field located in the texas panhandle; and the edwards gas field located in south texas. business activities pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogeneous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. the company's portfolio of resources 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company and opportunities are diversified among oil, ngl and gas, and are well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. petroleum industry. the industry has been operating in a low oil price environment since late 2014, when north american oil prices began declining due to a worldwide oversupply of oil. during the fourth quarter of 2016, members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") agreed to reduce their output by approximately 1.2 million boepd and certain oil-producing nations outside of opec, including russia, agreed to an additional 600,000 boepd reduction in production. these combined output reductions represent an unprecedented level of cooperation among oil-producing countries and the announcement of the reductions has resulted in a nominal increase in oil prices. in 2017, the worldwide supply of oil is expected to decline and, as a result, oil prices are expected to gradually increase as the supply reductions are realized and worldwide oil inventory levels decline. enforcement of the agreed production cuts will be monitored closely, and the company expects ongoing oil price volatility as compliance with the output reduction agreement is reported. the growth of unconventional shale drilling in the united states has substantially increased the supply of gas and ngls, resulting in a significant decline in related prices as the supply of these products has grown. while the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase takeaway capacity, such as the construction of liquefied natural gas ("lng") and ngl export facilities, the supply of these products has exceeded the overall united states and international demand for these commodities. ngl products and gas supplies are expected to remain at consistent levels during 2017, which is expected to keep prices relatively flat during 2017. significant factors that are likely to affect 2017 commodity prices include: the effect of new policies enacted by a new president of the united states and his administration; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government; potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations adhere to and agree to extend the agreed oil production cuts, which expire in june 2017; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including incremental lng export capacity additions and the pace that gas storage is refilled during the year given that gas storage levels are anticipated to be normal at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2017; however, commodity prices are volatile and if commodity prices decline, the company could realize lower prices for unprotected volumes and could see a reduction in the prices at which the company is able to enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's open derivative positions as of december 31, 2016 , and subsequent changes to these positions. liquidity. in spite of the current commodity price environment, the company has maintained a strong liquidity position. the company's primary needs for cash are for capital expenditures and acquisition expenditures on oil and gas properties and related vertical integration assets and facilities, payments of contractual obligations, including debt maturities, dividends and working capital obligations. principal sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investment securities, net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from divestitures and proceeds from financing activities (principally borrowings under the company's credit facility or issuances of debt or equity securities). if internal cash flows do not meet the company's expectations, the company may reduce its level of capital expenditures, and/or fund a portion of its capital expenditures (i) by using cash on hand, (ii) through sales of short-term and long-term investments, (iii) with borrowings under the company's credit facility, (iv) through issuances of debt or equity securities or (v) through other sources, such as sales of nonstrategic assets. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing controllable costs associated with production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2016 , the company's production from continuing operations of 86 mmboe, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 15 percent increase compared to production from continuing operations during 2015 . production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 is set forth in "item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data." acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company may pursue strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploitation and exploration opportunities. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiations of letters of intent or negotiations of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. see "item 1a. risk factors the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business." during 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , the company spent $446 million , $36 million and $104 million, respectively, primarily to purchase undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities in the spraberry/wolfcamp field of the permian basin. permian basin acquisition. the company's 2016 acquisition activities include the august 2016 acquisition of 28,000 net acres in the permian basin, with net production of approximately 1,400 boepd, from an unaffiliated third party for $428 million , including normal closing adjustments. the fair value of the assets acquired included $347 million of unproved property, $79 million of proved property and $5 million of other property and equipment. the fair value of the asset retirement obligations and other liabilities assumed were $2 million and $1 million, respectively. affiliated partnerships. the company's 2014 acquisition activities include the december 2014 acquisition of the remaining limited partner interests in five affiliated oil and gas drilling partnerships for $54 million . exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience, engineering and land staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1a. risk factors - exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves." development activities. the company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2016 , the company drilled 464 gross ( 368 net) development wells, with 100 percent of the wells being successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $2.9 billion . the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2016 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 37 mmbbls of oil, 10 mmbbls of ngls and 136 bcf of gas. the company believes that its proved reserves provide a meaningful portfolio of development opportunities. the timing of the development of these proved reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. integrated services. the company continues to utilize its integrated services to control well costs and operating costs in addition to supporting the execution of its drilling and production activities. the company owns fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 470,000 horsepower that support its drilling operations. the company also owns other field service equipment that support its drilling and production operations, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. in addition, premier silica (the company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary) is supplying high-quality and logistically advantaged brown sand for proppant, which is being used by the company to fracture stimulate horizontal wells in the spraberry and wolfcamp shale intervals. the company is also developing a water distribution system to support the company's field development. the company is purchasing approximately 100 thousand barrels per day of effluent water from the city of odessa and has signed an agreement with the city of midland to purchase effluent water upon legislative validation from the state of texas and completion of a new water treatment facility. the company expects to spend $160 million in 2017 primarily related to its field-wide water distribution network, which is expected to provide significant future cost savings and support the company's long-term growth plan in the spraberry/wolfcamp area. asset divestitures and discontinued operations. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities, create organizational and operational efficiencies and further the company's objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility. efs midstream. in july 2015, the company completed the sale of its 50.1 percent equity interest in efs midstream llc ("efs midstream") to an unaffiliated third party, with the company receiving total consideration of $1.0 billion , of which $530 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company million was received at closing and the remaining $501 million was received in july 2016. the company recorded a net gain on the disposition of $777 million in september 2015. sendero. in march 2014, the company completed the sale of its majority interest in sendero drilling company, llc ("sendero") to sendero's minority interest owner for cash proceeds of $31 million . as part of the sales agreement, the company committed to lease from sendero 12 vertical rigs through december 31, 2015 and eight vertical rigs in 2016. asset divestitures reflected as discontinued operations. during 2014, the company completed the sale of (i) its net assets in the hugoton field in southwest kansas for cash proceeds of $328 million , (ii) its net assets in the barnett shale field in north texas for cash proceeds of $150 million and (iii) 100 percent of its capital stock in pioneer's alaska subsidiary ("pioneer alaska") for cash proceeds of $267 million . the company has reflected the results of operations of its hugoton assets, its barnett shale assets and pioneer alaska as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. see notes c and d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's asset divestitures, impairments and discontinued operations. also see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for a discussion of risks associated with potential divestitures. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion regarding price risk. seasonal nature of business. generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. significant purchasers. during 2016 , the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were occidental energy marketing inc. (17 percent), plains marketing lp (17 percent) and vitol, inc. (13 percent). vitol inc.'s permian basin oil systems were acquired by sunoco logistics partners l.p. ("sunoco") during the fourth quarter of 2016; the company's contracts with vitol inc. have been transferred to sunoco. the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about infrastructure capacity risks and the company's significant customers. derivative risk management activities. the company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts that are intended to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. the company also, from time to time, utilizes interest rate derivative contracts intended to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the company's indebtedness. the company accounts for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ("mtm") method of accounting. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's derivative risk management activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , as well as the company's open commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2016 , and subsequent changes to those positions. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive in the exploration for and acquisition of reserves, the acquisition of oil and gas leases and the hiring and retention of staff necessary for the identification, evaluation and acquisition and development of such properties. the company's competitors include a large number of companies, including major integrated oil and gas 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company companies, other independent oil and gas companies, and individuals engaged in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties. some of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company; as such, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage in the identification, acquisition and development of properties that complement the company's operations. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. the company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the company believes are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect commodity prices or the degree to which commodity prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company many requirements, including the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the company's common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. numerous governmental entities, including the u.s. environmental protection agency (the "epa") and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, which may cause the company to incur significant capital expenditures or take costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, and the issuance of orders enjoining the company from conducting certain operations in a particular area. while, historically, the company's environmental compliance costs have not had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future as the company complies with existing or new environmental requirements. the following is a summary of the more significant environmental and worker health and safety laws, as amended from time to time, to which the company's business operations are or may be subject and with which compliance or the failure to maintain compliance may have a material adverse effect on the company's capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. hazardous wastes and substances. the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the authority delegated by the epa, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. the company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes that may be regulated as rcra hazardous wastes. rcra currently excludes drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas from the definition of hazardous waste. these wastes are instead regulated under rcra's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. any removal of this exclusion could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position, and it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous waste in the future. for example, following the filing of a lawsuit in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in may 2016 by several non-governmental environmental groups against the epa for the agency's failure to timely assess its rcra subtitle d criteria regulations for oil and gas wastes, the epa and the environmental groups entered into a settlement agreement that was finalized in a consent decree issued by the district court on december 28, 2016, whereby the epa is required to propose no later than march 15, 2019, a rulemaking for revision of certain subtitle d criteria regulations pertaining to oil and gas wastes or sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. if the epa proposes a rulemaking for revised oil and gas waste regulations, the decree requires that the epa take final action following notice and comment rulemaking no later than july 15, 2021. 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. cercla also authorizes the epa and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company generates materials in the course of its operations that may be regulated as cercla hazardous substances. the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. in addition, some of the company's properties or former properties have been operated by predecessors or previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. certain of these properties have had historical petroleum spills or releases. such properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws, which could require the company to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. although the costs of managing wastes or other substances classified as hazardous waste may be significant, the company does not expect to experience any more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies in the industry. water use, surface discharges and discharges into belowground formations. the federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act (the "cwa"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and hazardous substances, into waters of the united states and state waters. spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan requirements imposed under the cwa require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon spill, rupture or leak. additionally, the cwa and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of stormwater runoff from certain types of facilities. the cwa also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as require remedial or mitigation measures, for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the oil pollution act ("opa") sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills into waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, such as exploration and production facilities, may be held strictly liable for oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. opa amends the cwa and thus noncompliance with opa could result in civil and criminal penalties under the cwa. in may 2015, the epa released a final rule that was meant to define more precisely the extent to which water bodies are subject to the cwa. the cwa has generated substantial controversy, and several court challenges have been filed and are ongoing. the rule was stayed nationwide by the u.s. sixth circuit court of appeals in 2015 as that appellate court ponders lawsuits opposing implementation of the rule. in january 2017, the u.s. supreme court accepted review of this rule to determine whether jurisdiction rests with the federal district or appellate courts. the company continues to monitor the legal challenges to the rule and evaluate the impact of the cwa on its operations. any expansion to cwa jurisdiction in areas where the company operates could impose additional permitting obligations on the company. the company may dispose of produced water from oil and gas activities in underground wells, which are designed and permitted to place the water into non-productive geologic formations, isolated from fresh water sources. the underground injection control ("uic") program established under the federal safe drinking water act ("sdwa") (i) requires permits from the epa or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of disposal wells, (ii) establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations and (iii) restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. because some states have become concerned that the disposal of produced water into belowground formations could contribute to seismicity, they have adopted or are considering adopting additional regulations governing such disposal. should future onerous regulations or bans relating to underground wells be placed in effect in areas where the company has significant operations, there could be an adverse impact on the company's ability to operate. see "item 1a. risk factors - legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company activity could restrict the company's drilling and production activities, as well as its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on its business" for further discussion on seismicity issues. hydraulic fracturing . hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice to stimulate production of oil and gas from dense subsurface rock formations. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate oil and gas production. the company routinely conducts hydraulic fracturing in its drilling and completion programs. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal, state or local agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. additionally, from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered legislation that would provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and disclosure of chemical used in the fracturing process but, to date, no such federal legislation has been adopted. the company participates in fracfocus, a national publicly accessible internet-based registry developed by the ground water protection council and the interstate oil and gas compact commission. the additives used in the hydraulic fracturing process on all wells the company operates are disclosed on that website. in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. see "item 1a. risk factors - federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect the company's production" for further discussion on hydraulic fracturing issues. air emissions. the clean air act (the "caa") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. such laws and regulations could (i) require a facility to obtain pre-approval for construction or modification projects expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions, (ii) impose stringent air permit requirements or (iii) utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those that govern the discharge of materials into the environment, that could cause it to suspend or curtail its operations or incur substantial costs" for further discussion on air emission issues. climate change. climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made, and are likely to continue to be made, at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of greenhouse gases ("ghgs"). these efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. the adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. see "item 1a. risk factors - climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces" for further discussion on climate change issues. endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the "esa") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the esa. some of the company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. see "item 1a. risk factors - laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs" for further discussion on endangered species issues. activities on federal lands. oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands are subject to the national environmental policy act ("nepa"). nepa requires federal agencies, including the federal bureau of land management (the "blm"), to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. in the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an environmental assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact statement that may be made available for public review and comment. currently, the company has minimal exploration and production activities 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company on federal lands. however, for those current activities as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of nepa are required. this process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of some of the company's oil and gas projects. authorizations under nepa are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. moreover, depending on the mitigation strategies recommended in the environmental assessments, the company could incur added costs, which could be substantial. occupational health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health administration ("osha") and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osha hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statutes require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. in addition, the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations that are binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding production rates. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations that the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngls and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells or limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). ferc endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ("epact 2005") it is unlawful for any entity, such as the company, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. the epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1.2 million per day for each violation of the natural gas act ("nga") or the natural gas policy act of 1978. 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company under ferc order 704, which regulates annual gas transaction reporting requirements, any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to ferc on form no. 552 by may 1 of the year following the calendar year when such sales and purchases occurred. form no. 552 contains aggregate volumes of wholesale gas purchased or sold in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. the basis for intrastate gas pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate gas pipeline rates, vary from state to state. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the u.s. congress, ferc, state regulatory bodies and the courts. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. the company believes that the regulation of intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly situated competitors. natural gas processing . the company's gas processing operations are generally not subject to ferc or state regulation. there can be no assurance that the company's processing operations will continue to be unregulated in the future. however, although the processing facilities may not be directly related, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the company's processing business. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc jurisdiction. the company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests ferc has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. there is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. moreover, the distinction between ferc-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by the ferc and the courts. thus, the company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by these changes. the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngls . intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates, terms and conditions are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local authorities and, in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines that are also subject to ferc jurisdiction under the interstate commerce act (the "ica"). the company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. the ica requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with the ferc. the tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. the ica requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before the ferc. rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by the ferc, primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by the ferc. for the five-year period beginning in july 2016, the ferc established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.23 percent. this adjustment is subject to review every five years. under the ferc's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the company. in addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the company. any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company cash flows. however, the company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly situated competitors. in november 2009, the federal trade commission (the "ftc") issued regulations pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day. the commodity futures trading commission (the "cftc") has also issued anti-manipulation rules that subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. energy commodity prices . sales prices of oil, condensate, ngls and gas are not currently regulated and sales are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the u.s. congress historically has been active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the u.s. congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company's transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngls and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas; the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, ngls and gas; worldwide oil, ngl, and gas inventory levels, including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of oil and lng imports to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration and production of oil and gas so as to minimize emissions of carbon dioxide and methane ghgs; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for the five years ended december 31, 2016 , oil prices fluctuated from a high of $110.53 per bbl in 2013 to a low of $26.21 per bbl in 2016 while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.15 per mcf in 2014 to a low of $1.64 per mcf in 2016. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngls and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2016 decreased by 58 mboe, as compared to proved reserves at december 31, 2015 as a result of declines in the average oil and gas price used to calculate proved reserves for each respective period declining from $50.11 per bbl and $2.59 per mcf in 2015 to $42.82 per bbl and $2.48 per mcf in 2016. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses; the company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2017, the volumes of protected production for 2018 and future years is substantially less. a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. this could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the company's production volumes forecasted for 2018 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. in addition, the company's derivatives arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. the company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. even if the company accurately predicts sudden changes, the company's ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. during periods of declining commodity prices, the company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the company's counterparty credit exposure. if any of the company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes and could increase the likelihood that the company's derivative arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other governmental or regulatory requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2017 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. significant or extended price declines, as have occurred recently, could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. it is possible that prices could decline further, or the company's estimates of production or other economic factors could change to such an extent that the company may be required to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2016 the company recognized an impairment charge of $32 million attributable to its west panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of texas and, in 2015, the company recognized aggregate impairment charges of $1.1 billion attributable to its eagle ford shale assets, other south texas assets and west panhandle field assets, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for further information on the company's impairment charges. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties to determine recoverability of its cost and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2016 , the company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $486 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases and the contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2016 , the company carried goodwill of $272 million . goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (i) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (ii) results of drilling activities, (iii) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (iv) changes in the company's market capitalization, (v) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (vi) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain pre-closing matters, such as matters of litigation, environmental contingencies, royalty obligations and income taxes. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, and water distribution and disposal activities, are subject to all the risks incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as oil, ngl, gas and water leaks, oil spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm"), and unauthorized discharges of toxic chemicals, gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants onto the surface or into the subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; uncontrollable flows of oil or gas well fluids; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it increases internally-provided fracture stimulation, water distribution, water disposal and other services. any of these risks could result in 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2016 , the company owned interests in eight gas processing plants and nine treating facilities. the company is the operator of one of the gas processing plants and all nine of the treating facilities. seven of the gas processing plants are operated by third parties and six of the treating facilities are not currently being used. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. drilling in emerging areas is more uncertain than drilling in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established drilling operations. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2016 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 37 mmbbls of oil, 10 mmbbls of ngls and 136 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and cost of capital, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel and drilling results. there can be no assurance that the company will drill these locations or that the company will be able to produce oil or gas reserves from these locations or any other potential drilling locations. well results vary by formation and geographic area, and the company's drilling activities are generally focused on remaining locations that are believed to offer the highest return. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company a portion of the company's total estimated proved reserves at december 31, 2016 were undeveloped, and those proved reserves may not ultimately be developed. at december 31, 2016 , approximately seven percent of the company's total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. recovery of undeveloped proved reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. the company's reserve data assumes that the company can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which assumptions may not prove correct. if the company chooses not to spend the capital to develop these proved undeveloped reserves, or if the company is not otherwise able to successfully develop these proved undeveloped reserves, the company will be required to write-off these proved reserves. in addition, under the sec's rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells planned to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, the company may be required to write-off any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this five-year timeframe. as with all oil and gas leases, the company's leases require the company to drill wells that are commercially productive and to maintain the production in paying quantities, and if the company is unsuccessful in drilling such wells and maintaining such production, the company could lose its rights under such leases. the company's future production levels and, therefore, its future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing its proved undeveloped leasehold acreage. the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production and other financial and operating results. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates and assumptions, including that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur. production forecasts, specifically, are based on assumptions such as expectations of production from existing wells and the level and outcome of future drilling activity, and the absence of facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. should any of these estimates prove inaccurate, or should the company's development plans change, actual production could be materially and adversely affected. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions. producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates, which vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time as those reserves are produced, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions of additional recoverable reserves. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace its current or future production. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngls and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing and fractionation facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. for example, following hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the shutdown of the texas gulf coast ngl fractionators. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitations in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, refining or processing facilities, or lack of capacity on such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with an interstate pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngls and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in areas in which industry activity had increased rapidly, particularly in the spraberry field in west texas and the eagle ford shale play in south texas. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, increased, as did the costs for those items. in addition, hydraulic fracturing and other operations require significant quantities of water, which supply may be affected by drought conditions. in late 2014, commodity prices began to decline and the demand for goods and services has subsided due to reduced activity in these areas. to the extent that commodity prices improve in the future, any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the company to resume or increase its development activities, including the result of any changes in laws or regulations applicable to the company's operations relating to water usage, could result in oil and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flow and profitability. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased production and ad valorem taxes. decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to cost reductions for some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. however, such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. absent an expansion of u.s. refining capacity, rising u.s. production of oil and condensates could result in a surplus of these products in the u.s., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. although u.s. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated transportation and other costs. in such circumstances, the returns on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the company's operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those that govern the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection, which could cause it to suspend or curtail its operations or incur substantial costs. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, permits for the drilling of wells, rates of production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, ngls and gas, worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. in connection with its operations, the company must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. for example, there are concerns that the injection of produced water and other fluids resulting from oil and gas activities into 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company underground disposal wells regulated under the uic program may trigger seismic activity in certain areas, including texas and colorado. regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, rules with certain permitting and data gathering requirements with respect to such wells. also, states may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing disposal wells in the vicinity of seismic events. as another example, in october 2015, the epa issued a final rule under the caa lowering the national ambient air quality standard ("naaqs") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion under both the primary and secondary standards to provide protection of public health and welfare. any geographical attainment designations the epa may make or non-attainment area requirements the epa may issue pursuant to this naaqs rule could result in the reclassification of areas or the imposition of more stringent standards that make it more difficult to construct new or modified sources of air pollution in newly designated non-attainment areas. moreover, states are expected to implement regulations implementing the naaqs rule that may be more stringent than the federal standards. future compliance with these legal requirements or with any new or amended environmental laws or regulations could, among other things, delay, restrict or prohibit the issuance of necessary permits, increase the company's capital expenditures and operating expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, and limit or preclude the use of otherwise available water sources or disposal wells, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. as a third example, in connection with the company's cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state water court holding in 2009 that water produced in connection with cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring the obtaining of permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water supplies for water rights owners impacted by this extraction. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups or corrective actions, delays in permitting or performance of projects, natural resource damages and other liabilities. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. in addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations. the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company. the company's assets and production operations may give rise to significant environmental costs and liabilities as a result of the company's handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. the company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, treatment, storage, transport and disposal of wastes, hazardous substances and petroleum hydrocarbons and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil and produced water spills, gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of such wastes, substances and hydrocarbons, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. the company currently owns, leases or operates properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties and could be released during future operations. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict the company's drilling and production activities, as well as its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. the company disposes of fluids, including produced water, from oil and gas production operations directly or through the use of third parties. the legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water in underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. one such concern relates to recent seismic events near underground disposal wells used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and gas activities. in march 2016, the united states geological survey identified at least six states, including texas and colorado, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. in response 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. for example, in texas, the texas railroad commission adopted new rules governing the permitting or re-permitting of wells used to dispose of produced water and other fluids resulting from the production of oil and gas in order to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. in another example, in colorado, the colorado oil and gas conservation commission requires as part of its disposal well permitting process a review for seismicity that considers area-specific knowledge of earthquakes and, as necessary, the acquisition of geologic and geophysical data to assess seismic potential. in addition, states may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. furthermore, ongoing lawsuits allege that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. these developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by the company or by commercial disposal well vendors whom the company may use from time to time to dispose of produced water. increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to oil and gas activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. any one or more of these developments may result in the company or its vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require the company or its vendors to shut down or curtail the injection depth of disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces. climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of ghgs. these efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. at the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. the epa has, however, adopted regulations under the caa that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the prevention of significant deterioration in air quality by ghg emissions from large stationary sources that are already potential sources of significant pollutant emissions. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs from such sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the company's facilities. federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a ghg, from oil and gas operations. in june 2016, the epa published new source performance standards, known as subpart ooooa, that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. these subpart ooooa standards will expand previously issued new source performance standards, published by the epa in 2012 and known as subpart oooo, by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices, requiring additional controls for pneumatic controllers and pumps as well as compressors and imposing leak detection and repair requirements for well sites and gas compressor and booster stations. moreover, in november 2016, the epa issued a final information collection request seeking information about methane emissions from facilities and operators in the oil and gas industry. the epa has indicated that it intends to use the information from this request to develop existing source performance standards for the oil and gas industry. if adopted, these standards would not be imposed directly on regulated entities. instead, they would become guidelines that the states must consider in developing their own rules for regulating sources within their borders. the epa has indicated that this information may also be used to develop standards for certain kinds of new and modified equipment and facilities not currently covered under subpart ooooa. additionally, in december 2015, the united states joined the international community at the 21st conference of the parties of the united nations framework convention on climate change in paris, france that prepared an agreement requiring member countries to review and "represent a progression" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set ghg emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. this "paris agreement" was signed by the united states in april 2016 and entered into force in november 2016. although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their ghg emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. the adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that requires reporting of ghgs or otherwise restricts emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax, any of which could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, such new legislation or regulatory 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company programs could also adversely affect demand for the oil and gas the company produces and lower the value of its reserves. depending on the severity of any such limitations, the effect on the value of the company's reserves could be significant. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company conducts hydraulic fracturing in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have conducted investigations or asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, in december 2016, the epa released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that "water cycle" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. additionally, in february 2014, the epa asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the sdwa's uic program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities, and in 2012 and 2016, the epa issued final caa regulations governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of emissions of methane and volatile organic compounds released from hydraulic fracturing activities. moreover, in june 2016, the epa published an effluent water final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants, and in may 2014, the epa issued a prepublication of its advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding toxic substances control act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. also, the blm published a final rule in march 2015 that established new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and american indian lands. in june 2016, a wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the blm lacked congressional authority to promulgate the rule, and that decision is currently being appealed by the federal government. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition, certain states in which the company operates, including texas and colorado, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. states could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of new york in 2015. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. for example, in november 2014, voters in the city of denton, texas, voted for a ban on hydraulic fracturing within city limits. however, the ban was the subject of lawsuits by the texas general land office and the texas oil and gas law association, and spurred the adoption of texas house bill 40 in may 2015, which law provided that the regulation of oil and gas operations in texas was under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and preempted local regulation of those operations. however, pursuant to house bill 40, municipalities and political subdivisions in texas have the right to enact "commercially reasonable" regulations for surface activities. in the event federal, state or local restrictions pertaining to hydraulic fracturing are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs. various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. these statutes include the esa, the migratory bird treaty act, the cwa, opa and cercla. the u.s. fish and wildlife service (the "fws") may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. any designation by the fws of a critical or suitable habitat with respect to a threatened or endangered species could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, as a result of one or more settlements entered into by the fws, the agency is required to make determinations on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays or limitations on its development and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company is a party to debt instruments, a credit facility and other financial commitments that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and maintains a credit facility that is currently undrawn. the terms of the company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. the company is also subject to various commitments for leases, drilling contracts, derivative contracts, firm transportation, processing and fractionation, and purchase obligations for services and products. the company's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business including, but not limited to, the following: increasing its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting its ability to fund future development activities or engage in future acquisitions; and placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - capital commitments, capital resources and liquidity" and notes g and j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's outstanding debt and other commitments as of december 31, 2016 and the terms associated therewith. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. a ratings downgrade could adversely impact the company's ability to access debt markets, increase the borrowing cost under the company's credit facility and the cost of future debt, and potentially require the company to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations. the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop its properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. to a lesser extent, the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding competition. the company's sales and purchases of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. ferc, the ftc and the cftc hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company's business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company's physical sales and purchases of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failures to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a historical 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for future oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company's business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, the company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. costs for insurance may also increase as a result of security threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could damage the company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to satisfy their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. since 2010, the economies in the united states and certain other countries have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european, asian and south american nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth and, should these conditions worsen, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. in addition, continued hostilities in the middle east and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the united states or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company's cash flows and profitability. changes to u.s. federal income tax legislation could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that currently are available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, or could impose new or additional taxes, and such changes could have an adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in past years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to u.s. tax laws, including to certain key u.s. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. such legislative changes have included, but not been limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. u.s. congress could consider, and could include, some or all of these proposals as part of tax reform legislation to accompany lower federal income tax rates. moreover, other more general features of tax reform legislation, including changes to cost recovery rules and to the deductibility of interest expense, may be developed that also would change the taxation of oil and gas companies. it is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could take effect. in addition, the company, from time to time, recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions if it believes, based upon the technical merits of the position, that the position will more likely than not be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. for example, as of december 31, 2016 , the company had unrecognized tax benefits of $112 million resulting from research and experimental expenditures related to horizontal drilling and completions innovations. if all or a portion of the unrecognized tax benefit is sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, the tax benefit will be recognized as a reduction to the company's deferred tax liability and will affect the company's effective tax rate in the period it is recognized. the passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals, any other similar changes in u.s. federal income tax laws or an unfavorable determination in regard to the company's uncertain tax position could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that currently are available with respect to oil and gas development, or increase costs, and any such changes could have an adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the company's use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and gas, which could adversely affect the results of its drilling operations. even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. as a result, the company's drilling activities may not be successful or economical. in addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-d seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and the company could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. the enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on the company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") enacted in july 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations for its implementation. although the cftc has issued final regulations to implement significant aspects of the legislation, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in october 2011, the cftc issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. the initial position limits rule was vacated by the united states district court for the district of columbia in september 2012. however, in november 2013, the cftc proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain futures and options contracts and equivalent swaps for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions. as these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the company is uncertain at this time. the cftc has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. the cftc has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. although the company believes it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, the company may be required to clear such transactions. the ultimate effect of the proposed rules and any additional regulations on the company's business is uncertain. in addition, certain banking regulators and the cftc have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. although the company expects to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps entered into to manage its commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if any of the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, the posting of collateral could reduce its liquidity and cash available for capital expenditures and could reduce its ability to manage commodity price volatility and the volatility in its cash flows. the full impact of the dodd-frank act and related regulatory requirements upon the company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters and reduce the company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the dodd-frank act and regulations, the company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company's revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. in addition, the european union and other non-u.s. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. to the extent the company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. at this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear. the future of the cftc's rulemaking remains uncertain under the new presidential administration. recent rule proposals by the cftc suggest that final consideration of major proposed rules will be made by the new administration. during the last quarter of 2016, the cftc decided to re-propose, rather than finalize, certain regulations, including (a) limitations on speculative futures and swap positions, (b) regulations on automated trading algorithms and (c) limitations on swap capital requirements for swap dealers and major swap participants. in december 2016, the chairman of the cftc stated that the cftc decided to re-propose, rather than finalize, the above regulations, in part based on the uncertainty over the next presidential administration. it is also uncertain whether the current chairman of the cftc and other cftc staff will remain with the cftc under the new presidential administration. the current chairman's term expires in april 2017, and two seats are currently open for republican appointees, leaving the cftc's future rulemaking unclear. provisions of the company's charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. provisions in the company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company's board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. 28 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance. ownership of industrial sand mining operations is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the company's control. these risks include: unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures; cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls; unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions; inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change; environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants; changes in laws and regulations; inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights; restrictions on blasting operations; inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts; reduction in the amount of water available for processing; technical difficulties or failures; labor disputes; late delivery of supplies; fires, explosions or other accidents; and facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions. any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. not all of these risks are insurable, and the company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. the company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated. the company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are periodically reviewed by outside firms. however, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the company's control. estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as: geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience; assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. the company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, ghg emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, wastes, hazardous substances and other regulated materials and natural resources. some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the cercla, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of wastes, hazardous substances and other regulated materials or otherwise conduct the company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. in addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or re-interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. 29 table of contents pioneer natural resources company while the company's environmental compliance costs with existing laws and regulations have not historically had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future. moreover, such future compliance with existing, new or amended laws and regulations could restrict the company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations. any failure by the company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely affect the company, including: issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations; imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; and requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. in addition to environmental regulation, the company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the u.s. mining safety and health administration, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977 and amending legislation, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the company's sand mining operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. this act, as amended, is a strict liability statute and any failure by the company to comply with such existing or any future standards, or any more stringent interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities. in addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. also, the company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits, water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility. in order to obtain permits, renewals of permits or other approvals in the future for its sand mining operations, the company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. obtaining or renewing required permits or approvals may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the company's control. moreover, issuance of any permits, permit renewals or other approvals by governmental agencies may be conditioned on new or modified requirements or procedures with respect to mining that may be costly or time-consuming to implement. a decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations and the company may not be able to renew or obtain permits or other approvals in the future. the company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company. the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. there is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. these health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. the actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and 30 table of contents pioneer natural resources company adversely affect the company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits, recently adopted osha silica regulations and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. premier silica, the company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary, is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of premier silica's commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. as of december 31, 2016 , premier silica was the subject of silica exposure claims from approximately 19 plaintiffs. the great majority of these claims have been inactive for many years due to the plaintiffs' failure to meet specific legal requirements to advance their claims. almost all of the claims pending against premier silica arise out of the alleged use of premier silica's sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of texas, mississippi and ohio, although some cases have been brought in other jurisdictions over the years. it is possible that premier silica will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. in addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the company's other operations, including its hydraulic fracturing operations. any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative disclosures 62 qualitative disclosures 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer, a delaware corporation formed in 1997, is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, ngls and gas within the united states. the company's common stock has been listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd" since its formation in 1997. the company's principal executive office is located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company also maintains an office in midland, texas and field offices in its areas of operation. at december 31, 2016 , pioneer had 3,604 employees, 1,343 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 947 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to be america's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. the company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives: maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; delivering economic production and reserve growth; enhancing drilling, completion and production activities by utilizing the company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency; and developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner, combined with environmental stewardship through industry-leading sustainable development efforts. these strategies are primarily anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying the spraberry/wolfcamp field is over 75 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2016 . complementing this growth area, the company has oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the following areas: the liquid-rich eagle ford shale play located in south texas; the raton gas field located in southern colorado; the west panhandle gas and liquids field located in the texas panhandle; and the edwards gas field located in south texas. business activities pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogeneous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. the company's portfolio of resources 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company and opportunities are diversified among oil, ngl and gas, and are well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. petroleum industry. the industry has been operating in a low oil price environment since late 2014, when north american oil prices began declining due to a worldwide oversupply of oil. during the fourth quarter of 2016, members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") agreed to reduce their output by approximately 1.2 million boepd and certain oil-producing nations outside of opec, including russia, agreed to an additional 600,000 boepd reduction in production. these combined output reductions represent an unprecedented level of cooperation among oil-producing countries and the announcement of the reductions has resulted in a nominal increase in oil prices. in 2017, the worldwide supply of oil is expected to decline and, as a result, oil prices are expected to gradually increase as the supply reductions are realized and worldwide oil inventory levels decline. enforcement of the agreed production cuts will be monitored closely, and the company expects ongoing oil price volatility as compliance with the output reduction agreement is reported. the growth of unconventional shale drilling in the united states has substantially increased the supply of gas and ngls, resulting in a significant decline in related prices as the supply of these products has grown. while the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase takeaway capacity, such as the construction of liquefied natural gas ("lng") and ngl export facilities, the supply of these products has exceeded the overall united states and international demand for these commodities. ngl products and gas supplies are expected to remain at consistent levels during 2017, which is expected to keep prices relatively flat during 2017. significant factors that are likely to affect 2017 commodity prices include: the effect of new policies enacted by a new president of the united states and his administration; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government; potential changes to the tax laws in the united states; continuing economic struggles in european and asian nations; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations adhere to and agree to extend the agreed oil production cuts, which expire in june 2017; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including incremental lng export capacity additions and the pace that gas storage is refilled during the year given that gas storage levels are anticipated to be normal at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2017; however, commodity prices are volatile and if commodity prices decline, the company could realize lower prices for unprotected volumes and could see a reduction in the prices at which the company is able to enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion regarding price risk. seasonal nature of business. generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. significant purchasers. during 2016 , the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were occidental energy marketing inc. (17 percent), plains marketing lp (17 percent) and vitol, inc. (13 percent). vitol inc.'s permian basin oil systems were acquired by sunoco logistics partners l.p. ("sunoco") during the fourth quarter of 2016; the company's contracts with vitol inc. have been transferred to sunoco. the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation and refining facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngls and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas; the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, ngls and gas; worldwide oil, ngl, and gas inventory levels, including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of oil and lng imports to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration and production of oil and gas so as to minimize emissions of carbon dioxide and methane ghgs; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for the five years ended december 31, 2016 , oil prices fluctuated from a high of $110.53 per bbl in 2013 to a low of $26.21 per bbl in 2016 while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.15 per mcf in 2014 to a low of $1.64 per mcf in 2016. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngls and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2016 decreased by 58 mboe, as compared to proved reserves at december 31, 2015 as a result of declines in the average oil and gas price used to calculate proved reserves for each respective period declining from $50.11 per bbl and $2.59 per mcf in 2015 to $42.82 per bbl and $2.48 per mcf in 2016. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses; the company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2017, the volumes of protected production for 2018 and future years is substantially less. a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. this could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the company's production volumes forecasted for 2018 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. in addition, the company's derivatives arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. the company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. even if the company accurately predicts sudden changes, the company's ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. during periods of declining commodity prices, the company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the company's counterparty credit exposure. if any of the company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes and could increase the likelihood that the company's derivative arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other governmental or regulatory requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2017 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. significant or extended price declines, as have occurred recently, could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. it is possible that prices could decline further, or the company's estimates of production or other economic factors could change to such an extent that the company may be required to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company's oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2016 the company recognized an impairment charge of $32 million attributable to its west panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of texas and, in 2015, the company recognized aggregate impairment charges of $1.1 billion attributable to its eagle ford shale assets, other south texas assets and west panhandle field assets, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations. the amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. (b) see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative 56 table of contents pioneer natural resources company disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2016 , and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. the fair values of the company's long-term debt and derivative contracts are determined based on observable inputs and utilizing the company's valuation models and applications. as of december 31, 2016 , the company was a party to swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short put options. see notes d and e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 15 risk factors," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, ngls and gas within the united states. the company is a delaware corporation, and its common stock has been listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd" since its formation in 1997. the company's principal executive office is located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company also maintains an office in midland, texas and field offices in its areas of operation. at december 31, 2017 , pioneer had 3,836 employees, 1,423 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 1,010 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to be america's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. the company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives: maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; delivering economic production and reserve growth; enhancing drilling, completion and production activities by utilizing the company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency; developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner; and stewarding the environment through industry leading sustainable development efforts. the company's long-term strategy is primarily anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying the spraberry/wolfcamp field is over 75 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2017 . in february 2018, the company announced plans to divest its oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the following areas: the eagle ford shale gas and liquids field located in south texas; the raton gas field located in southern colorado; the west panhandle gas and liquids field located in the texas panhandle; the edwards gas field located in south texas; and the sinor nest wilcox oil field located in south texas. no assurance can be given that the sales will be completed in accordance with the company's plans or on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company business activities pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogeneous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. the company's portfolio of resources and opportunities are primarily located in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field, and provide long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. petroleum industry. the petroleum industry has been operating in a lower oil price environment since late 2014, when north american oil prices began declining due to a worldwide oversupply of oil. during the fourth quarter of 2016, the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") members and some nonmembers, led by russia, pledged to reduce their oil output by roughly 1.8 million barrels a day from october 2016 levels in an effort to draw down a global oversupply and to rebalance supply and demand. the agreement became effective in january 2017 and was originally set to expire in march 2018. during november 2017, opec members and some nonmembers agreed to lengthen the output reductions through december 2018. these output reductions represented an unprecedented level of cooperation among oil-producing countries and, coupled with healthy oil demand, resulted in an increase in oil prices during 2017. in 2018, the worldwide demand for oil is expected to increase further as economic growth around the world is forecasted to be stronger than the last several years. this demand increase is expected to be met by higher supplies of oil from u.s. shale production growth and further oil inventory drawdowns. the company expects ongoing oil price volatility as compliance with the output reduction agreement, changes in oil inventories and actual demand growth is reported. the growth of unconventional shale drilling in the united states has substantially increased the supply of gas and ngls, resulting in a significant decline in related prices as the supply of these products has grown. while the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase takeaway capacity, such as the construction of liquefied natural gas ("lng") and ngl export facilities, the supply of these products has exceeded the overall united states and international demand for these commodities. ngl products and gas supplies are expected to increase during 2018, which is expected to cause prices to decline slightly or remain flat during 2018. significant factors that are likely to affect 2018 commodity prices include: the effect of new policies enacted by the president of the united states and his administration; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government; enacted changes to the tax laws in the united states; expected economic growth throughout the world; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; forecasted increased demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations adhere to and agree to extend the agreed oil production cuts, which expire in december 2018; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including incremental lng export capacity additions and the pace that gas storage is refilled during the year given that gas storage levels are anticipated to be at normal levels at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production for 2018 and, to a lesser extent, its forecasted 2019 production; however, commodity prices are volatile and if commodity prices decline, the company could realize lower prices for unprotected volumes and could see a reduction in the prices at which the company is able to enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's open derivative positions as of december 31, 2017 , and subsequent changes to these positions. liquidity. in spite of the lower commodity price environment, the company has maintained a strong liquidity position. the company's primary needs for cash are for capital expenditures, acquisitions of oil and gas properties, vertical integration assets and facilities, payments of contractual obligations, including debt maturities, dividends, share repurchases and working capital obligations. principal sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents, net cash provided by operating activities, short-term and long-term investments, proceeds from divestitures and proceeds from financing activities (principally borrowings under the company's credit facility or issuances of debt or equity securities). if internal cash flows do not meet the company's expectations, the company may reduce its level of capital expenditures, and/or fund a portion of its capital expenditures (i) by using cash on hand, (ii) through sales of short-term and long-term investments, (iii) with borrowings under the company's credit facility, (iv) through issuances of debt or equity securities or (v) through other sources, such as sales of nonstrategic assets. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing controllable 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company costs associated with production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , the company's production of 99 mmboe, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 16 percent increase compared to production during 2016 . production, price and cost information with respect to the company's properties for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 is set forth in "item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data." acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiations of letters of intent or negotiations of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. see "item 1a. risk factors the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could materially and adversely affect its business." during 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , the company spent $136 million , $446 million and $36 million, respectively, primarily to purchase undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities in the spraberry/wolfcamp field of the permian basin. 2016 permian basin acquisition. the company's 2016 acquisition activities included the august 2016 acquisition of 28,000 net acres in the permian basin, with net production of approximately 1,400 boepd, from an unaffiliated third party for $428 million , including normal closing adjustments. the fair value of the assets acquired included $347 million of unproved property, $79 million of proved property and $5 million of other property and equipment. the fair value of the asset retirement obligations and other liabilities assumed were $2 million and $1 million , respectively. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience, engineering and land staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see "item 1a. risk factors - exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves." development activities. the company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2017 , the company drilled 181 gross ( 130 net) development wells, with 100 percent of the wells being successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $2.0 billion . the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2017 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 45 mmbbls of oil, 22 mmbbls of ngls and 291 bcf of gas. the timing of the development of these proved reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. integrated services. the company continues to utilize its integrated services to control well costs and operating costs in addition to supporting the execution of its drilling and production activities. the company owns fracture stimulation fleets totaling approximately 470,000 horsepower that support its drilling operations. the company also owns other field service equipment that support its drilling and production operations, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. in addition, pioneer sands llc, the company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary, is supplying high-quality brown sand for proppant, which is being used by the company to fracture stimulate horizontal wells in the spraberry and wolfcamp shale intervals. the company is also constructing a field-wide water distribution system to reduce the cost of water for drilling and completion activities and to secure adequate supplies of water to support the company's long-term growth plan for the spraberry/wolfcamp field. during 2017, the company expanded its mainline system, subsystems and frac ponds to efficiently deliver water to pioneer's drilling locations. the company is purchasing up to 120 thousand barrels per day of effluent water from the city of odessa and has signed an agreement with the city of midland to upgrade the city's wastewater treatment plant in return for a dedicated long-term supply of water from the plant. once the upgrade to the wastewater treatment plant is complete, the company expects to receive approximately two billion barrels of low-cost, non-potable water over a 28-year contract period (up to 240 thousand barrels per day) to support its completion operations. 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities, create organizational and operational efficiencies and further the company's objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility. in february 2018, the company announced its intention to divest its properties in south texas, raton and the west panhandle field and focus its efforts and capital resources to its permian basin assets. no assurance can be given that the sales will be completed in accordance with the company's plans or on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. permian basin . in april 2017, the company completed the sale of approximately 20,500 acres in the martin county region of the permian basin, with net production of approximately 1,500 boepd, to an unaffiliated third party for cash proceeds of $264 million . the sale resulted in a gain of $194 million . in conjunction with the divestiture, the company reduced the carrying value of goodwill by $2 million , reflecting the portion of the company's goodwill related to the assets sold. efs midstream. in july 2015, the company completed the sale of its 50.1 percent equity interest in efs midstream llc ("efs midstream") to an unaffiliated third party, with the company receiving total consideration of $1.0 billion , of which $530 million was received at closing and the remaining $501 million was received in july 2016. the company recorded a net gain on the disposition of $777 million in september 2015. the company will continue to review its acreage in the permian basin and negotiate with other operators in the area to sell or trade nonstrategic properties to achieve operating efficiencies and to improve profitability. see notes c and d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for specific information regarding the company's asset divestitures and impairments. also see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters" for a discussion of risks associated with planned divestitures. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion regarding price risk. seasonal nature of business. generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. significant purchasers. during 2017 , the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were occidental energy marketing inc. (24 percent), sunoco logistics partners l.p. (14 percent) and plains marketing lp (10 percent). the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for more information about infrastructure capacity risks and the company's significant customers. derivative risk management activities. the company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts that are intended to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. the company also, from time to time, utilizes interest rate derivative contracts intended to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the company's indebtedness and marketing derivatives to mitigate price risk associated with buy and sell marketing arrangements to fulfill firm pipeline transportation commitments. the company accounts for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ("mtm") method of accounting. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for a description of the company's derivative risk management activities, "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , as well as the company's open commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2017 , and subsequent changes to those positions. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive in the exploration for and acquisition of reserves, the acquisition of oil and gas leases and the hiring and retention of staff necessary for the identification, evaluation and acquisition and development of such properties. the company's competitors include a large number of companies, including major integrated oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas companies, and individuals engaged in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties. some of the company's competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company; as such, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage in the identification, acquisition and development of properties that complement the company's operations. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. the company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the company believes are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect commodity prices or the degree to which commodity prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company many requirements, including the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the company's common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. numerous governmental entities, including the u.s. environmental protection agency (the "epa"), the u.s. occupational safety and health administration (the "osha") and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, which may cause the company to incur significant capital expenditures or take costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory remedial or corrective action of obligations, the occurrence of delays or restrictions in permitting or the performance of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining the company from conducting certain operations in a particular area. while the company's environmental compliance costs have historically not had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future, or that new or more stringently applied laws and regulations will not materially increase the cost of doing business. the following is a summary of the more significant environmental and worker health and safety laws, as amended from time to time, to which the company's business operations are or may be subject and with which compliance or the failure to maintain compliance may have a material adverse effect on the company's capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. hazardous wastes and substances. the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the authority delegated by the epa, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. the company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes that may be regulated as rcra hazardous wastes. rcra currently excludes drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas from the definition of hazardous waste. these wastes are instead regulated under rcra's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. there have been efforts from time to time to remove this exclusion, which removal could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position, and it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous waste in the future. for example, in response to a lawsuit filed by several non-governmental environmental groups against the epa for the agency's failure to timely assess its rcra subtitle d criteria regulations for oil and gas wastes, the epa and the environmental groups entered into a settlement agreement that was finalized in a consent decree issued by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in december 2016, whereby the epa is required to propose no later than march 15, 2019, a rulemaking for the revision of certain subtitle d criteria regulations pertaining to oil and gas wastes or sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. if the epa proposes a rulemaking for revised oil and gas waste regulations, the decree requires that the epa take final action following notice and comment rulemaking no later than july 15, 2021. the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. cercla also authorizes the epa and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company generates materials in the course of its operations that may be regulated as cercla hazardous substances. see "item 1a. risk factors - the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company" for further discussion on environmental contamination issues. water use, surface discharges and discharges into belowground formations. the federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act (the "cwa"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and hazardous substances, into waters of the united states and state waters. spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan requirements imposed under the cwa require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon spill, rupture or leak. additionally, the cwa and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of stormwater runoff from certain types of facilities. the cwa also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as require remedial or mitigation measures, for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws. the federal oil pollution act ("opa") sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills into waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, such as exploration and production facilities, may be held strictly liable for oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. opa amends the cwa and thus noncompliance with opa could result in civil and criminal penalties under the cwa. in june 2015, the epa and the u.s. army corps of engineers (the "corps") published a final rule attempting to clarify the federal jurisdictional reach over waters of the united states, but legal challenges to this rule followed and the rule was stayed nationwide by the u.s. sixth circuit court of appeals in october 2015 pending resolution of the court challenges. in january 2017, the u.s. supreme court accepted review of the rule to determine whether jurisdiction rests with the federal district or appellate courts. additionally, following the issuance of a presidential executive order to review the rule, the epa and the corps proposed a rulemaking in june 2017 to repeal the june 2015 rule. the epa and the corps also announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the cwa's jurisdiction. on november 22, 2017, the epa and the corps published a proposed rule specifying that the contested june 2015 rule would not take effect until two years after the rule proposed on november 22, 2017 is finalized and published in the federal register. as a result, future implementation of the june 2015 rule is uncertain at this time. to the extent this rule or a revised rule expands the scope of the cwa's jurisdiction, the company could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas in connection with any expansion activities. the company may dispose of produced water from oil and gas activities in underground wells, which are designed and permitted to place the water into non-productive geologic formations that are isolated from fresh water sources. the underground injection control ("uic") program established under the federal safe drinking water act ("sdwa") requires issuance of permits from the epa or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of disposal wells. additionally, the uic program establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. because some states have become concerned that the disposal of produced water into below ground formations could contribute to seismicity, they have adopted or are considering adopting additional regulations governing such disposal. should future onerous regulations or bans relating to underground wells be placed in effect in areas where the company has significant operations, there could be an adverse impact on the company's ability to operate. see "item 1a. risk factors - pioneer's operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities and restrictions on the company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a materially adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows" for further discussion on seismicity issues. hydraulic fracturing . hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice to stimulate production of oil and gas from dense subsurface rock formations. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate oil and gas production. the company routinely conducts hydraulic fracturing in its drilling and completion programs. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but, in recent years, several federal, state and local agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. additionally, from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered legislation that would provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process but, to date, no such federal legislation has been adopted. the company participates in fracfocus, a national publicly accessible internet-based registry managed by the ground water protection council and the interstate oil and gas compact commission. fracfocus provides the public access to company-reported information on the additives it uses in the hydraulic fracturing process on wells the company operates. in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. see "item 1a. risk factors - federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and materially and adversely affect the company's production" for further discussion on hydraulic fracturing issues. 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company air emissions. the federal clean air act (the "caa") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. such laws and regulations could require a facility to obtain pre-approval for construction or modification projects expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions. additionally, these legal requirements could impose stringent air permit conditions or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental and oil and gas-related laws and regulations that could cause it to suspend or curtail its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" for further discussion on air emission issues. climate change. climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made, and are likely to continue to be made, at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of greenhouse gases ("ghgs"). these efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. the adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. see "item 1a. risk factors - climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces, and the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the company's production and cause it to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects" for further discussion on climate change issues. endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the "esa") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the esa. some of the company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. see "item 1a. risk factors - laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs" for further discussion on endangered species issues. activities on federal lands. oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands are subject to the national environmental policy act ("nepa"). nepa requires federal agencies, including the federal bureau of land management (the "blm"), to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. in the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an environmental assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact statement that may be made available for public review and comment. currently, the company has minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands. however, for those current activities, as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of nepa are required. this process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of some of the company's oil and gas projects. authorizations under nepa are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. moreover, depending on the mitigation strategies recommended in the environmental assessments, the company could incur added costs, which could be substantial. occupational health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations issued by osha strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osha hazard communication standard, the epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statutes require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. additionally, the company's sand mining operations are subject to mining safety regulation. the u.s. mining safety and health administration ("msha") is the primary regulatory organization that regulates quarries, surface mines, underground mines and the industrial mineral processing facilities associated with and located at quarries and mines. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company osha promulgated new rules in march 2016 for workplace exposure to respirable silica for several other industries. respirable silica is a known health hazard for workers exposed over long periods. the msha has been considering the adoption of similar rules. if any new rule issued by msha lowers the workplace exposure limit significantly, the company could incur significant capital and operating expenditures for equipment to reduce this exposure. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations that are binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding production rates. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations that the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngls and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells or limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). ferc endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ("epact 2005") it is unlawful for any entity, such as the company, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. the epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1 million per day for each violation of the natural gas act ("nga"), the natural gas policy act of 1978 and related regulations. under ferc order 704, which regulates annual gas transaction reporting requirements, any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to ferc on form no. 552 by may 1 of the year following the calendar year when such sales and purchases occurred. form no. 552 contains aggregate volumes of wholesale gas purchased or sold in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. the basis for intrastate gas pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate gas pipeline rates, vary from state 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company to state. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the u.s. congress, ferc, state legislatures, state regulatory bodies and the courts. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. the company believes that the regulation of intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly situated competitors. natural gas processing . the company's gas processing operations are generally not subject to ferc or state regulation with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service. there can be no assurance that the company's processing operations will continue to be unregulated in the future. however, although the processing facilities may not be directly regulated, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the company's processing business. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc jurisdiction. the company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests ferc has used to establish a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. there is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. moreover, the distinction between ferc-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and regulation of some of the company's gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by the ferc and the courts. thus, the company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by these changes. the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngls . intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates, terms and conditions are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local authorities and, in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines that are also subject to ferc jurisdiction under the interstate commerce act (the "ica"). the company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. the ica requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with the ferc. the tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. the ica requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before the ferc. rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by the ferc, primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by the ferc. for the five-year period beginning in july 2016, the ferc established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.23 percent. this adjustment is subject to review every five years. under the ferc's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the company. in addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the company. any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. however, the company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent as to its similarly situated competitors. in november 2009, the federal trade commission (the "ftc") issued regulations pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1 million per violation per day, subject to annual inflation adjustment. the commodity futures trading commission (the "cftc") has also issued anti-manipulation rules that subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1 million per violation, subject to annual inflation adjustment, or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. see "items 1a. risk factors - the company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks." 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company energy commodity prices . sales prices of oil, condensate, ngls and gas are not currently regulated and sales are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the u.s. congress historically has been active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the u.s. congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company's transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngls and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas; the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, ngls and gas; worldwide oil, ngl and gas inventory levels, including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of oil, ngl and lng imports to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and gas so as to minimize emissions of carbon dioxide and methane ghgs; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for the five years ended december 31, 2017 , oil prices fluctuated from a high of $110.53 per bbl in 2013 to a low of $26.21 per bbl in 2016 while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.15 per mcf in 2014 to a low of $1.64 per mcf in 2016. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company significant or extended price declines could also materially and adversely affect the amount of oil, ngls and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses; the company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2018, the volumes of protected production for 2019 and future years is substantially less. a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. this could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the company's production volumes forecasted for 2019 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. in addition, the company's derivatives arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. finally, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act"), enacted in july 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. regulation by the cftc and banking regulators may materially and adversely affect the cost and availability of derivatives, including by causing the company's contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail or cease their derivatives activities. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. the company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. even if the company accurately predicts sudden changes, the company's ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. during periods of declining commodity prices, the company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the company's counterparty credit exposure. if any of the company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes and could increase the likelihood that the company's derivative arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; construction delays; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company title defects; lack of available gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, storage, refining or export facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other governmental or regulatory requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2018 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. significant or extended price declines could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to the carrying value of its proved oil and gas properties. the company performs assessments of its oil and gas properties whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. in order to perform these assessments, management uses various observable and unobservable inputs, including management's outlooks for (i) proved reserves and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, (ii) commodity prices, (iii) production costs, (iv) capital expenditures and (v) production. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2017 the company recognized an impairment charge of $285 million attributable to its raton field in southeast colorado, and in 2016 the company recognized an impairment charge of $32 million attributable to its west panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of texas, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for further information on the company's impairment charges. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties to determine recoverability of its cost and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2017 , the company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $558 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases and the contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2017 , the company had a carrying value for goodwill of $270 million . goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (i) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (ii) results of drilling activities, (iii) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (iv) changes in the company's market capitalization, (v) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (vi) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could materially and adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including, among other things: 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain pre-closing matters, such as matters of litigation, environmental contingencies, royalty obligations and income taxes. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, and water distribution and disposal activities, are subject to all the risks incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as ngl and gas leaks, oil and produced water spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm"), and unauthorized discharges of toxic chemicals, gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants onto the surface or into the subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; uncontrollable flows of oil or gas well fluids; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; surface access restrictions; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it increases internally-provided fracture stimulation, water distribution, water disposal and other services. any of these risks could result in substantial 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2017 , the company owned interests in 10 gas processing plants and four treating facilities. the company is the operator of one of the gas processing plants and all four of the treating facilities. nine of the gas processing plants are operated by third parties and one of the treating facilities is not currently being used. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. drilling in emerging areas is more uncertain than drilling in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established drilling operations. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2017 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 45 mmbbls of oil, 22 mmbbls of ngls and 291 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and cost of capital, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel and drilling results. there can be no assurance that the company will drill these locations or that the company will be able to produce oil or gas reserves from these locations or any other potential drilling locations. well results vary by formation and geographic area, and the company's drilling activities are generally focused on remaining locations that are believed to offer the highest return. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. a portion of the company's total estimated proved reserves at december 31, 2017 were undeveloped, and those proved reserves may not ultimately be developed. at december 31, 2017 , approximately eight percent of the company's total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. recovery of undeveloped proved reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. the company's reserve data assumes that the company can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which assumptions may not prove correct. if the company chooses not to spend the capital to develop these proved undeveloped reserves, or if the company is not otherwise able to successfully develop these proved undeveloped reserves, the company will be required to write-off these proved reserves. in addition, under the sec's rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells planned to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, the company may be required to write-off any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this five-year timeframe. as with all oil and gas leases, the company's leases require the company to drill wells that are commercially productive and to maintain the production in paying quantities, and if the company is unsuccessful in drilling such wells and maintaining such production, the company could lose its rights under such leases. the company's future production levels and, therefore, its future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing its proved undeveloped leasehold acreage. the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production and other financial and operating results. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates and assumptions, including that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur. production forecasts, specifically, are based on assumptions such as: expectations of production from existing wells and future drilling activity; the absence of facility or equipment malfunctions; the absence of adverse weather effects; expectations of commodity prices, which could experience significant volatility; expected well costs; and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. should any of these assumptions prove inaccurate, or should the company's development plans change, actual production could be materially and adversely affected. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions. producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates, which vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time as those reserves are produced, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions of additional recoverable reserves. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace its current or future production. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngls and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company for example, following hurricane harvey in 2017 and hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the inability of certain texas gulf coast ngl fractionators to operate. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitations in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, storage, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, or lack of capacity at such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with a ferc-related pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngls and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in the permian basin of west texas, an area of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs; such concentration also makes the company vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited geographic area. the company's producing properties are geographically concentrated in the permian basin of west texas. at december 31, 2017 , 77 percent of the company's total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. in addition, the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in this area where industry activity is high. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources has increased, as well as the costs for these items. any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services and resources could result in oil, ngl and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flow and profitability. as a result of this concentration, the company may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of operations or production in this area caused by external factors such as governmental regulation, state politics, market limitations, water or sand shortages or extreme weather related conditions. pioneer's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. restrictions on the company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. water is an essential component of both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. limitations or restrictions on the company's ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought), could materially and adversely impact its operations. severe drought conditions can result in local water districts taking steps to restrict the use of water in their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply. if the company is unable to obtain water to use in its operations from local sources, it may need to be obtained from new sources and transported to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company must dispose of the fluids produced from oil and gas production operations, including produced water, which it does directly or through the use of third party vendors. the legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water into a non-producing geologic formation by means of underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. one such concern arises from recent seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and gas activities. in march 2016, the united states geological survey identified texas and colorado as being among the states with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. in response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. for example, in texas, the texas railroad commission adopted new rules governing the permitting or re-permitting of wells used to dispose of produced water and other fluids resulting from the production of oil and gas in order to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company states may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. these developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by the company or by commercial disposal well vendors whom the company may use from time to time to dispose of produced water. increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to limit or prohibit oil and gas activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. any one or more of these developments may result in the company or its vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require the company or its vendors to shut down or curtail the injection into disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased production and ad valorem taxes. decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to cost reductions for some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. however, such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. absent an expansion of u.s. refining and export capacity, rising u.s. production of oil and condensates could result in a surplus of these products in the u.s., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. although u.s. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated export capacity expansions, transportation and other costs. in such circumstances, the returns on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental and oil and gas-related laws and regulations that could cause it to suspend or curtail its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the drilling of wells, developing rates of production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, ngls and gas, and the discharging of materials into the environment and environmental protection. in connection with its operations, the company must obtain and maintain numerous environmental and oil and gas-related permits, approvals, and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. the need to obtain permits has the potential to delay the development of oil and gas projects. over the next several years, the company may be charged royalties on gas emissions or required to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions-related issues. for example, in october 2015, the epa issued a final rule under the caa lowering the national ambient air quality standard ("naaqs") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion under standards to provide protection of public health and welfare. in november 2017, the epa published a final rule that issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone for approximately 85% of the u.s. counties as either "attainment/unclassifiable" or "unclassifiable" but has not yet issued non-attainment designations for the remaining areas of the u.s. not addressed under the november 2017 final rule. reclassification of areas or imposition of more stringent standards may make it more difficult to construct new or modify air pollution control systems to reduce or eliminate sources of air pollution in newly designated non-attainment areas. moreover, states are expected to implement regulations implementing the naaqs rule that may be more stringent than the federal standards. in another example, in june 2016, the epa published a final rule updating federal permitting regulations for stationary sources in the oil and gas industry by defining and clarifying the meaning of the term "adjacent" for determining when separate surface sites and the equipment at those sites will be aggregated for permitting purposes. future compliance with these legal requirements or with any new or amended environmental laws or regulations could, among other things, delay, restrict or prohibit the issuance of necessary permits, increase the company's capital expenditures and operating 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or materially and adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups or corrective actions, delays in permitting or performance of projects, natural resource damages and other liabilities. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. in addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations. the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company. the company's assets and production operations may give rise to significant environmental costs and liabilities as a result of the company's handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. the company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, treatment, storage, transport and disposal of wastes, hazardous substances and petroleum hydrocarbons and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil and produced water spills, ngl and gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of such wastes, substances and hydrocarbons, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. the company currently owns, leases or operates, and in the past has owned, leased or operated, properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. these wastes, substances and hydrocarbons may also be released during future operations. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by predecessors or previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. such properties and the substances disposed or released on or under them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws, which could require the company to remove previously disposed substances, wastes and petroleum hydrocarbons, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces and the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the company's production and cause the company to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of ghgs. these efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. at the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. the epa has, however, adopted regulations under the caa that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the prevention of significant deterioration in air quality by ghg emissions from large stationary sources that are already potential sources of significant pollutant emissions. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of ghgs from such sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the company's facilities. federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a ghg, from oil and gas 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company operations. in june 2016, the epa published a final rule establishing new source performance standards, known as subpart ooooa, that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and gas sector to reduce certain methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. these subpart ooooa standards expand previously issued new source performance standards, published by the epa in 2012 and known as subpart oooo, by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices. however, in june 2017, the epa published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these subpart ooooa standards for two years and revisit the entirety of the 2016 standard, but has not yet published a final rule. as a result, future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. furthermore, with respect to a final rule published by the blm in november 2016 and imposing requirements to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring and leaking on public lands, the blm has since published a proposed rulemaking in october 2017 that would temporarily suspend certain requirements contained in the november 2016 final rule until january 17, 2019, but the october 2017 rulemaking has not yet been finalized. at the state level, some states are considering and other states, including colorado, where the company conducts operations, have issued requirements for the performance of leak detection programs that identify and repair methane leaks at certain oil and gas sources. state rules may be more stringent than federal rules. compliance with the epa's june 2016, the blm's november 2016 rule or with any future federal or state methane regulations could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment and significantly increase the company's capital expenditures and operating costs. internationally, in december 2015, the united states joined the international community at the 21st conference of the parties of the united nations framework convention on climate change in paris, france that prepared an agreement requiring member countries to review and "represent a progression" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set ghg emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. this "paris agreement" was signed by the united states in april 2016 and entered into force in november 2016. although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their ghg emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. in august 2017, the u.s. state department officially informed the united nations of the united states' intention to withdraw from the paris agreement. the paris agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in november 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of november 2020. the united states' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the united states may re-enter the paris agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. the adoption and implementation of any federal or state legislation or regulations or international agreements that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, such new legislation or regulatory programs as well as conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to climate change could also materially and adversely affect demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces and lower the value of its reserves. depending on the severity of any such limitations, the effect on the value of the company's reserves could be material. in addition, recent non-governmental activism directed at shifting funding away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector. finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other extreme climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on the company's exploration and production operations. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and materially and adversely affect the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company conducts hydraulic fracturing in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but in recent years, several federal agencies have conducted investigations or asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, in december 2016, the epa released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that "water cycle" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. additionally, the epa has asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the sdwa's uic program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities. moreover, in june 2016, the epa published an effluent water final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants, and in 2014, the epa issued a prepublication of its advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding toxic substances control act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. also, the blm published a final rule 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in march 2015 that established new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and american indian lands. however, with respect to this blm rule, a wyoming federal judge struck down this rule in june 2016, finding that the blm lacked congressional authority to promulgate the rule, the blm appealed the decision in july 2017, the appellate court issued a ruling in september 2017 to vacate the wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the blm's issuance of a proposed rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule and, on december 29, 2017, the blm published a final rule rescinding the march 2017 rule. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the additives used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition, certain states in which the company operates, including texas and colorado, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. states could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of new york. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular although in may 2015 in response to one city in texas voting to ban hydraulic fracturing within city limits the texas legislature adopted texas house bill 40, which provides that the regulation of oil and gas operations in texas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and preempted local regulation of those operations. despite texas house bill 40, municipalities and political subdivisions in texas continue to have the right to enact "commercially reasonable" regulations for surface activities. in the event federal, state or local restrictions pertaining to hydraulic fracturing are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs. various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. these statutes include the esa, the migratory bird treaty act, the cwa, opa and cercla. the u.s. fish and wildlife service (the "fws") may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. any designation by the fws of a critical or suitable habitat with respect to a threatened or endangered species could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, as a result of one or more settlements entered into by the fws, the agency is required to make determinations on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays or limitations on its development and production activities that could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. the company is a party to debt instruments, a credit facility and other financial commitments that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and maintains a credit facility that is currently undrawn. the terms of the company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. in addition, from time to time, the company enters into arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations, including firm purchase, transportation and fractionation commitments, gathering, processing and transportation commitments on uncertain volumes of future throughput, operating lease agreements and drilling commitments. the company's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business including, but not limited to, the following: the incurrence of charges associated with unused commitments if future events do not meet the company's expectations at the time such commitments are entered into; increasing its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and industry; limiting its ability to fund future development activities or engage in future acquisitions; and placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - capital commitments, capital resources and liquidity" and notes g and j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for information regarding the company's outstanding debt and other commitments as of december 31, 2017 and the terms associated therewith. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. a ratings downgrade could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to access debt markets, increase the borrowing cost under the company's credit facility and the cost of future debt, and potentially require the company to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations. the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop its properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. to a lesser extent, the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. see "item 1. business - competition, markets and regulations" for additional discussion regarding competition. the company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. the ferc, the ftc and the cftc hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company's business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company's transportation of gas in interstate commerce, physical sales and purchases of oil, ngls, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failures to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future development costs, operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a historical 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for future oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company's business could be materially and adversely affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, the company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. costs for insurance may also increase as a result of security threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated. the company relies extensively on information technology systems, including internet sites, computer software, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting its business. the company's technologies systems and networks, and those of its business associates may become the target of cybersecurity attacks, including without limitation malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems and materially and adversely affect the company in a variety of ways, including the following: unauthorized access to and release of seismic data, reserves information, strategic information or other sensitive or proprietary information, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to compete for oil and gas resources; data corruption or operational disruption of production infrastructure, which could result in loss of production or accidental discharge; unauthorized access to and release of personal identifying information of royalty owners, employees and vendors, which could expose the company to allegations that it did not sufficiently protect that information; a cybersecurity attack on a vendor or service provider, which could result in supply chain disruptions and could delay or halt operations; and a cybersecurity attack on third-party gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, which could delay or prevent the company from transporting and marketing its production, resulting in a loss of revenues. these events could damage the company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. additionally, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company as cyber threats continue to evolve, the company may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to satisfy their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. since 2016, the economies in the united states and certain countries in europe and asia have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain south american nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. if these conditions worsen, combined with a decline in economic growth in other parts of the world, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. in addition, continued hostilities in the middle east and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the united states or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company's cash flows and profitability. the company's use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and gas, which could materially and adversely affect the results of its drilling operations. even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. as a result, the company's drilling activities may not be successful or economic. in addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-d seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and the company could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. the enactment of derivatives legislation could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the dodd-frank act enacted in july 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations for its implementation. although the cftc has issued final regulations to implement significant aspects of the legislation, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. in october 2011, the cftc issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. the initial position limits rule was vacated by the united states district court for the district of columbia in september 2012. however, in november 2013, the cftc proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain futures and options contracts and equivalent swaps for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions. as these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the company is uncertain at this time. the cftc has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. the cftc has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. although the company believes it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, the company may be required to clear such transactions. the ultimate effect of the proposed rules and any additional regulations on the company's business is uncertain. 28 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in addition, certain banking regulators and the cftc have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. although the company expects to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps entered into to manage its commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if any of the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, the posting of collateral could reduce its liquidity and cash available for capital expenditures and could reduce its ability to manage commodity price volatility and the volatility in its cash flows. the full impact of the dodd-frank act and related regulatory requirements upon the company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters and reduce the company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the dodd-frank act and regulations, the company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could materially and adversely affect the company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company's revenues could therefore be materially and adversely affected if a consequence of the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. in addition, the european union and other non-u.s. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. to the extent the company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. at this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear. the future of the sec and cftc's rulemaking remains uncertain. regulatory agendas that were released in late 2017 indicated that the sec and cftc plan to pursue fewer rulemaking items than in prior years. for example, the cftc announced its intent to take action on an agency-wide internal review focused on simplifying and modernizing cftc rules, regulations and practices and focus on streamlining the implementation of existing regulations and practices. although the sec and the cftc's agendas are less expansive than they have been in the past, wholesale deregulation of the markets will not necessarily be the outcome. for example, the cftc plans to take a new look at passing rules on position limits for certain futures contracts, and the sec intends to re-propose rules for "plain vanilla" exchange-traded funds and add amendments to the volcker rule. moreover, regulation by the cftc and banking regulators of the over-the-counter derivatives market and market participants could cause the company's contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail or cease their derivatives activities, which could materially and adversely affect the cost and availability of derivatives to the company. provisions of the company's charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. provisions in the company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company's board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. the company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance. ownership of industrial sand mining operations is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the company's control. these risks include: unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures; cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls; unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions; inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change; environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants; changes in laws and regulations; inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights; restrictions on blasting operations; 29 table of contents pioneer natural resources company inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts; reduction in the amount of water available for processing; technical difficulties or failures; labor disputes; late delivery of supplies; fires, explosions or other accidents; and facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions. any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. not all of these risks are insurable, and the company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. the company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated. the company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are periodically reviewed by outside firms. however, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the company's control. estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as: geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience; assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. the company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, ghg emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, wastes, hazardous substances and other regulated materials and natural resources. some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the cercla, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of wastes, hazardous substances and other regulated materials or otherwise conduct the company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. in addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or re-interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. while the company's environmental compliance costs with existing laws and regulations have not historically had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future. moreover, such future compliance with existing, new or amended laws and regulations could restrict the company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations. any failure by the company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could materially and adversely affect the company, including: issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations; imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; and 30 table of contents pioneer natural resources company requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. in addition to environmental regulation, the company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the msha, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977 and amending legislation, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the company's sand mining operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. this act, as amended, is a strict liability statute and any failure by the company to comply with such existing or any future standards, or any more stringent interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities. in addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. also, the company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, mining and other permits and water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility. in order to obtain permits, renewals of permits or other approvals in the future for its sand mining operations, the company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. obtaining or renewing required permits or approvals may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the company's control. moreover, issuance of any permits, permit renewals or other approvals by governmental agencies may be conditioned on new or modified requirements or procedures with respect to mining that may be costly or time-consuming to implement. a decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations and the company may not be able to renew or obtain permits or other approvals in the future. the company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company. the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. there is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. these health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. the actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits, recently adopted osha silica regulations and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. pioneer sands llc ("pioneer sands"), the company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary, is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of pioneer sands or its commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. as of december 31, 2017 , pioneer sands was the subject of silica exposure claims from 19 plaintiffs. almost all of the claims pending against pioneer sands arise out of the alleged use of pioneer sands' sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of texas, mississippi and alabama, although some cases have been brought in other jurisdictions over the years. it is possible that pioneer sands will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. in addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the company's other operations, including its hydraulic fracturing operations. any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. 31 table of contents pioneer natural resources company quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative disclosures 64 qualitative disclosures 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, ngls and gas within the united states. the company is a delaware corporation, and its common stock has been listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd" since its formation in 1997. the company's principal executive office is located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company also maintains an office in midland, texas and field offices in its areas of operation. at december 31, 2017 , pioneer had 3,836 employees, 1,423 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 1,010 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to be america's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. the company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives: maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; delivering economic production and reserve growth; enhancing drilling, completion and production activities by utilizing the company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency; developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner; and stewarding the environment through industry leading sustainable development efforts. the company's long-term strategy is primarily anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying the spraberry/wolfcamp field is over 75 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2017 . in february 2018, the company announced plans to divest its oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the following areas: the eagle ford shale gas and liquids field located in south texas; the raton gas field located in southern colorado; the west panhandle gas and liquids field located in the texas panhandle; the edwards gas field located in south texas; and the sinor nest wilcox oil field located in south texas. no assurance can be given that the sales will be completed in accordance with the company's plans or on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company business activities pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogeneous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. the company's portfolio of resources and opportunities are primarily located in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field, and provide long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. petroleum industry. the petroleum industry has been operating in a lower oil price environment since late 2014, when north american oil prices began declining due to a worldwide oversupply of oil. during the fourth quarter of 2016, the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") members and some nonmembers, led by russia, pledged to reduce their oil output by roughly 1.8 million barrels a day from october 2016 levels in an effort to draw down a global oversupply and to rebalance supply and demand. the agreement became effective in january 2017 and was originally set to expire in march 2018. during november 2017, opec members and some nonmembers agreed to lengthen the output reductions through december 2018. these output reductions represented an unprecedented level of cooperation among oil-producing countries and, coupled with healthy oil demand, resulted in an increase in oil prices during 2017. in 2018, the worldwide demand for oil is expected to increase further as economic growth around the world is forecasted to be stronger than the last several years. this demand increase is expected to be met by higher supplies of oil from u.s. shale production growth and further oil inventory drawdowns. the company expects ongoing oil price volatility as compliance with the output reduction agreement, changes in oil inventories and actual demand growth is reported. the growth of unconventional shale drilling in the united states has substantially increased the supply of gas and ngls, resulting in a significant decline in related prices as the supply of these products has grown. while the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase takeaway capacity, such as the construction of liquefied natural gas ("lng") and ngl export facilities, the supply of these products has exceeded the overall united states and international demand for these commodities. ngl products and gas supplies are expected to increase during 2018, which is expected to cause prices to decline slightly or remain flat during 2018. significant factors that are likely to affect 2018 commodity prices include: the effect of new policies enacted by the president of the united states and his administration; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government; enacted changes to the tax laws in the united states; expected economic growth throughout the world; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; forecasted increased demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations adhere to and agree to extend the agreed oil production cuts, which expire in december 2018; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including incremental lng export capacity additions and the pace that gas storage is refilled during the year given that gas storage levels are anticipated to be at normal levels at the end of the winter draw season. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production for 2018 and, to a lesser extent, its forecasted 2019 production; however, commodity prices are volatile and if commodity prices decline, the company could realize lower prices for unprotected volumes and could see a reduction in the prices at which the company is able to enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional discussion regarding price risk. seasonal nature of business. generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. significant purchasers. during 2017 , the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were occidental energy marketing inc. (24 percent), sunoco logistics partners l.p. (14 percent) and plains marketing lp (10 percent). the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure in its key producing areas could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" and note l of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngls and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngls and gas; the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, ngls and gas; worldwide oil, ngl and gas inventory levels, including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of oil, ngl and lng imports to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and gas so as to minimize emissions of carbon dioxide and methane ghgs; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for the five years ended december 31, 2017 , oil prices fluctuated from a high of $110.53 per bbl in 2013 to a low of $26.21 per bbl in 2016 while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.15 per mcf in 2014 to a low of $1.64 per mcf in 2016. likewise, ngls have suffered significant recent declines. ngls are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company significant or extended price declines could also materially and adversely affect the amount of oil, ngls and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses; the company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2018, the volumes of protected production for 2019 and future years is substantially less. a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. this could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the company's production volumes forecasted for 2019 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. in addition, the company's derivatives arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. finally, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act"), enacted in july 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. regulation by the cftc and banking regulators may materially and adversely affect the cost and availability of derivatives, including by causing the company's contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail or cease their derivatives activities. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. the company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. even if the company accurately predicts sudden changes, the company's ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. during periods of declining commodity prices, the company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the company's counterparty credit exposure. if any of the company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes and could increase the likelihood that the company's derivative arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; construction delays; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company title defects; lack of available gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, storage, refining or export facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other governmental or regulatory requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2018 . future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. significant or extended price declines could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to the carrying value of its proved oil and gas properties. the company performs assessments of its oil and gas properties whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. in order to perform these assessments, management uses various observable and unobservable inputs, including management's outlooks for (i) proved reserves and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, (ii) commodity prices, (iii) production costs, (iv) capital expenditures and (v) production. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2017 the company recognized an impairment charge of $285 million attributable to its raton field in southeast colorado, and in 2016 the company recognized an impairment charge of $32 million attributable to its west panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of texas, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations. the amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. (b) see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2017 , and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. the fair values of the company's long-term debt and derivative contracts are determined based on observable inputs and utilizing the company's valuation models and applications. as of december 31, 2017 , the company was a party to swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short put options. see notes d and e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 16 risk factors," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, ngls and gas within the united states, with operations primarily in the permian basin in west texas. the company is a delaware corporation, and its common stock has been listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd" since its formation in 1997. the company's principal executive office is located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company also maintains an office in midland, texas and field offices in its areas of operation. at december 31, 2018 , pioneer had 3,177 employees, 1,006 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 618 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the sec maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the company makes available free of charge through its website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to be america's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. the company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives: maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; delivering economic production and reserve growth; enhancing drilling, completion and production activities by utilizing the company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency; developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner; and stewarding the environment through industry leading sustainable development efforts. the company's long-term strategy is primarily anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in the permian basin in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying the spraberry/wolfcamp field is 93 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2018 . in february 2018, the company announced its intention to divest its properties in the south texas, raton basin and west panhandle fields and focus its efforts and capital resources on its permian basin assets. in 2018, the company completed the following divestitures: field completion date sinor nest (lower wilcox) oil field (south texas) december 2018 west panhandle gas and liquids field (texas panhandle) august 2018 raton basin gas field (southern colorado) july 2018 western portion of eagle ford shale gas and liquids field (south texas) april 2018 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company continues to actively market its remaining south texas assets (eagle ford shale gas and liquids field and edwards gas field). no assurance can be given that the remaining planned divestitures will be completed in accordance with the company's plans or on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. business activities pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogeneous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. the company's portfolio of resources and opportunities are primarily located in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field, and provide long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. petroleum industry. over the past several years, the oil price environment has been characterized by high volatility. during 2018, brent oil prices rose to a high of $86.29 per barrel in early october 2018, only to fall late in the fourth quarter to a low of $50.47 per barrel due to concerns over a worldwide oversupply of oil, in large part resulting from dramatic increases in u.s. shale oil production. additionally, concerns about the potential for slower growth in u.s. and global gross domestic products, which would likely be accompanied by lower oil demand, has contributed to the downward pressure. recently, the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") members and some nonmembers, including russia, have renewed pledges to reduce planned production in an effort to draw down a global oversupply and to rebalance supply and demand. geopolitical factors may also be price-supportive, with the united states having issued sanctions against iran, although the impact of those sanctions has been muted by waivers. the company expects ongoing oil price volatility as compliance with the output reduction agreements, changes in oil inventories, extensions to iranian waivers and actual demand growth is reported. the growth of unconventional shale drilling in the united states has substantially increased the supply of gas and ngls, resulting in a significant decline in related prices as the supply of these products has grown. while the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase takeaway capacity, such as the construction of liquefied natural gas ("lng") and ngl export facilities, the supply of these products has increased at a faster pace than the overall united states and international demand for these commodities. ngl products and gas supplies are expected to continue to increase during 2019 and prices are expected to remain volatile. significant factors that are likely to affect 2019 commodity prices include: the effect of u.s. energy, monetary and trade policies; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government; the pace of economic growth in the u.s. and throughout the world, including the potential for macro weakness; geopolitical and economic developments in the u.s. and globally; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations adhere to and agree to extend the agreed oil production cuts; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including incremental lng export capacity additions. because the global economic and political outlook and commodity price environment are uncertain, the company endeavors to maintain a strong financial liquidity position to support its financial flexibility. pioneer enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, ngl and gas transportation capacity from the company's areas of production with the objective of transporting a portion of the company's oil and gas sales to higher priced markets. specifically, the company has entered into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the company's oil sales to the gulf coast refinery or international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. these marketing activities provided incremental cash flow of $458 million in 2018, compared to cash outlays of $31 million and $64 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. additionally the company uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. the company has entered into derivative contracts for only a small portion of its forecasted 2019 production; consequently, if commodity prices decline, the company could realize lower prices for volumes not protected by the company's derivative activities and could see a reduction in derivative contract prices available on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices or to the extent that sales prices do not cover the third-party purchase price and cost of transportation for that portion of volumes transported to other markets. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. liquidity. the company's primary needs for cash are for (i) capital expenditures, (ii) acquisitions of oil and gas properties, (iii) payments of contractual obligations, including debt maturities, (iv) dividends and share repurchases and (v) working capital obligations. funding for these cash needs may be provided by any combination of the company's primary sources of liquidity including: (i) cash and cash equivalents, (ii) net cash provided by operating activities, (iii) sales of short-term and long-term investments, (iv) proceeds from divestitures, (iv) unused borrowing capacity under its credit facility, (v) issuances of debt or equity securities and (vi) other sources, such as sales of nonstrategic assets. although the company expects that these sources of funding 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company will be adequate to fund its 2019 capital expenditures, dividend payments and provide adequate liquidity to fund other needs, including stock repurchases, no assurance can be given that such funding sources will be adequate to meet the company's future needs. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing controllable costs associated with production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , the company's production of 117 mmboe, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 17 percent increase compared to production during 2017 . see "item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data" for additional information. drilling activities. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. development activities . the company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2018 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 55 mmbbls of oil, 24 mmbbls of ngl and 142 bcf of gas. the timing of the development of these proved reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. during the three years ended december 31, 2018 , the company drilled 801 gross ( 701 net) exploration and development wells, with 98 percent of the wells ( 99 percent of net wells) being successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $8.2 billion , including infrastructure capital. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience, engineering and land staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire or trade for properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities, increase the lateral length of future horizontal wells and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition and acreage trade opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiations of letters of intent or negotiations of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition or acreage trade is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. during 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , the company spent $65 million , $136 million and $446 million , respectively, primarily to purchase undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities in the spraberry/wolfcamp field of the permian basin. see note 3 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. integrated services. the company continues to utilize its integrated services to control well costs and operating costs in addition to supporting the execution of its drilling and production activities. the company owns field service equipment that supports its drilling and production operations, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. the company continues to construct a field-wide water distribution system to reduce the cost of water for drilling and completion activities and to secure adequate supplies of water to support the company's long-term growth plan for the spraberry/wolfcamp field. during 2018, the company expanded its mainline system, subsystems and frac ponds to efficiently deliver water to pioneer's drilling locations. the company is purchasing approximately 120 thousand barrels per day of effluent water from the city of odessa and has signed an agreement with the city of midland to upgrade the city's wastewater treatment plant in return for a dedicated long-term supply of water from the plant. once the upgrade to the wastewater treatment plant is complete, the company expects to receive approximately two billion barrels of low-cost, non-potable water over a 28-year contract period (up to 240 thousand barrels per day) to support its drilling and completion activities. in november 2018, the company announced plans to close its sand mine located in brady, texas and transition its proppant supply requirements to west texas sand sources. during 2018, the company recorded $443 million of accelerated depreciation and $7 million of employee-related charges associated with the pending shutdown. 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base to identify nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities, create organizational and operational efficiencies and further the company's objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility. oil and gas activities. in february 2018, the company announced its intention to divest its properties in the south texas, raton basin and west panhandle fields and focus its efforts and capital resources on its permian basin assets. in december 2018, the company completed the sale of approximately 2,900 net acres in the sinor nest (lower wilcox) oil field in south texas to an unaffiliated third party for cash proceeds of $105 million , after normal closing adjustments. during 2018, the company recorded a gain of $54 million associated with the sale. in august 2018, the company completed the sale of its assets in the west panhandle gas and liquids field to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $170 million , after normal closing adjustments. the assets sold represent all of the company's interests in the field, including all of its producing wells and the associated infrastructure. during 2018, the company recorded a gain of $127 million and employee-related charges of $7 million associated with sale. in july 2018, the company completed the sale of its gas field assets in the raton basin to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $54 million , after normal closing adjustments. the company recorded a noncash impairment charge of $77 million in june 2018 to reduce the carrying value of its raton basin assets to their estimated fair value less costs to sell as the assets were considered held for sale. during 2018 , the company recorded a gain of $2 million associated with this divestiture. the company also recorded divestiture-related charges of $117 million , including $111 million of deficiency charges related to certain firm transportation contracts retained by the company and employee-related charges of $6 million . in april 2018, the company completed the sale of approximately 10,200 net acres in the west eagle ford shale gas and liquids field to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $100 million , after normal closing adjustments. during 2018, the company recorded a gain of $75 million associated with the sale. in april 2017, the company completed the sale of approximately 20,500 acres in the martin county region of the permian basin, with net production of approximately 1,500 boepd, to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $264 million . the sale resulted in a gain of $194 million . the company continues to actively market its remaining south texas assets (eagle ford shale gas and liquids field and edwards gas field) and will continue to review its acreage in the permian basin and negotiate with other operators in the area to sell or trade nonstrategic properties to achieve operating efficiencies and to improve profitability. no assurance can be given that these divestitures or trades will be completed in accordance with the company's plans or on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. see note 3 and note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. integrated services activities. in december 2018, the company completed the sale of its pressure pumping assets to propetro holding corp. ("propetro") in exchange for total consideration of $282 million , comprised of $110 million of short-term receivables to be paid by propetro during the first quarter of 2019 and 16.6 million shares of propetro's common stock. the company recorded a gain of $30 million , employee-related charges of $19 million , contract termination charges of $13 million and other divestiture-related charges of $6 million associated with the sale. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information. seasonal nature of business. generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. significant purchasers. during 2018 , the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngl and gas produced by the company were sunoco logistics partners l.p. ( 28 percent ), occidental energy marketing inc. ( 17 percent ) and plains marketing l.p. ( 15 percent ). the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure for its permian basin production could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to produce and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company during 2018 , the company's significant purchaser of oil and gas purchased from third parties was occidental energy marketing inc. ( 34 percent ). no other purchaser of oil or gas purchased by the company from third parties exceeded ten percent during 2018 . the loss of a significant purchaser of purchased oil and gas would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell commodities it purchases from third parties. see note 12 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. derivative risk management activities. the company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts that are intended to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. from time to time, the company also utilizes interest rate derivative contracts intended to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the company's indebtedness. the company enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, ngl and gas transportation capacity from the company's areas of production. the company enters into purchase transaction with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the company's oil sales to the gulf coast refinery or international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive in the exploration for and acquisition of reserves, the acquisition of oil and gas leases, marketing of oil, ngl and gas production and the obtaining of equipment and services and the hiring and retention of staff necessary for the identification, evaluation, operation and acquisition and development of such properties. the company's competitors include a large number of companies, including major integrated oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas companies, and individuals engaged in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties. to a lesser extent, the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind and solar power. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. the company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the company believes are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources" for additional information. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngl and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect commodity prices or the degree to which commodity prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production unless the company effectively enhances margins through marketing and derivative arrangements. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company many requirements, including the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the company's common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. numerous governmental entities, including the u.s. environmental protection agency (the "epa"), the u.s. occupational safety and health administration ("osha") and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, which may cause the company to incur significant capital expenditures or take costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory remedial or corrective action of obligations, the occurrence of delays or restrictions in permitting or the performance of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining the company from conducting certain operations in a particular area. while the company's environmental compliance costs have historically not had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future, or that new or more stringently applied laws and regulations will not materially increase the cost of doing business. the following is a summary of the more significant environmental and worker health and safety laws, as amended from time to time, to which the company's business operations are or may be subject and with which compliance or the failure to maintain compliance may have a material adverse effect on the company's capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. hazardous wastes and substances. the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the authority delegated by the epa, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. the company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes that may be regulated as rcra hazardous wastes. rcra currently excludes from the definition of hazardous waste drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas. these wastes are instead regulated under rcra's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. there have been efforts from time to time to remove this exclusion, which removal could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position, and it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous waste in the future. the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. cercla also authorizes the epa and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company generates materials in the course of its operations that may be regulated as cercla hazardous substances. see "item 1a. risk factors - the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company" for additional information. water use, surface discharges and discharges into underground formations. the federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act (the "cwa"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and hazardous substances, into waters of the united states and state waters. spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan requirements imposed under the cwa require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon spill, rupture or leak. additionally, the cwa and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of stormwater runoff from certain types of facilities. the cwa also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as require remedial or mitigation measures, for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws. the federal oil pollution act ("opa") sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills into waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, such as exploration and production facilities, may be held strictly liable for oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. opa amends the cwa and thus noncompliance with opa could result in civil and criminal penalties under the cwa. the company may dispose of produced water from oil and gas activities in underground wells, which are designed and permitted to place the water into non-productive geologic formations that are isolated from fresh water sources. the underground injection control ("uic") program established under the federal safe drinking water act ("sdwa") requires issuance of permits 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company from the epa or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of disposal wells. additionally, the uic program establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. because some states have become concerned that the disposal of produced water into underground formations could contribute to seismicity, they have adopted or are considering adopting additional regulations governing such disposal. should future onerous regulations or bans relating to underground wells be placed in effect in areas where the company has significant operations, there could be an adverse impact on the company's ability to operate. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. restrictions on the company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows" for additional information. hydraulic fracturing . hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice to stimulate production of oil and gas from dense subsurface rock formations. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate oil and gas production. the company routinely conducts hydraulic fracturing in its drilling and completion programs. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but, in recent years, several federal, state and local agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. additionally, from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered legislation that would provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process but, to date, no such federal legislation has been adopted. the company participates in fracfocus, a national publicly accessible internet-based registry that provides the public access to company-reported information on the additives it uses in the hydraulic fracturing process on wells the company operates. in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays, curtailment or a cessation in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. see "item 1a. risk factors - laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions, delays or cancellations and have a material adverse effect on the company's production" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company" for additional information. air emissions. the federal clean air act (the "caa") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. such laws and regulations could require a facility to obtain pre-approval for construction or modification projects expected to produce new air pollutant emissions or result in the increase of existing air pollutant emissions. additionally, these legal requirements could impose stringent air permit conditions or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" for additional information. climate change. climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made, and are likely to continue to be made, at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of ghgs. these efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. the adoption and implementation of any federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. see "item 1a. risk factors - climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngl and gas the company produces, while the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the company's production and cause it to incur significant costs" for additional information. 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the "esa") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the esa. some of the company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be delayed, restricted or prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. see "item 1a. risk factors - laws and regulations pertaining to protection of threatened and endangered species or to critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources could delay, restrict or prohibit the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on the company's development and production of reserves" for additional information. activities on federal lands. oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands are subject to the national environmental policy act ("nepa"). nepa requires federal agencies, including the federal bureau of land management (the "blm"), to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. in the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an environmental assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact statement that may be made available for public review and comment. currently, the company has minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands. however, for those current activities, as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of nepa are required. this process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of some of the company's oil and gas projects. authorizations under nepa are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. moreover, depending on the mitigation strategies recommended in the environmental assessments, the company could incur added costs, which could be substantial. occupational health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act and comparable state statutes. these laws and the implementing regulations issued by osha strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osha hazard communication standard, the epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statutes require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. additionally, the company's sand mining operations are subject to mining safety regulation. the u.s. mining safety and health administration (the "msha") is the primary regulatory organization that regulates quarries, surface mines, underground mines and the industrial mineral processing facilities associated with and located at quarries and mines. the company's sand mining operations are subject to the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. osha amended its legal requirements in 2016, publishing a final rule that established a more stringent permissible exposure to respirable crystalline silica and provides other provisions to protect employees. this final rule required compliance with most applicable requirements by various industry sectors, including the hydraulic fracturing sector, by june 2018. respirable silica is a known health hazard for workers exposed over long periods. the msha has considered the adoption of similar rules, but thus far no such rulemaking has been issued. if any new rule were issued by the msha that significantly lowered the workplace exposure limit to respirable crystalline silica, the company could experience significantly higher costs for sand and pressure pumping services. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company" for additional information. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations that are binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding production rates. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations that the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells or limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). ferc endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ("epact 2005") it is unlawful for any entity, such as the company, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. the epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1 million per day, subject to annual inflation adjustment, for each violation of the natural gas act ("nga"), the natural gas policy act of 1978 and related regulations. under ferc order 704, which regulates annual gas transaction reporting requirements, any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to ferc on form no. 552 by may 1 of the year following the calendar year when such sales and purchases occurred. form no. 552 contains aggregate volumes of wholesale gas purchased or sold in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. the basis for intrastate gas pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate gas pipeline rates, vary from state to state. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the u.s. congress, ferc, state legislatures, state regulatory bodies and the courts. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. the company believes that the regulation of intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly situated competitors. see additional information in "item 1a. risk factors - the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company of oil, ngl, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks." gas processing . the company's gas processing operations are generally not subject to ferc or state regulation with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational and regulatory risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue" for additional information. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc jurisdiction. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by these changes. the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" for additional information. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngl . intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates, terms and conditions are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local authorities and, in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines that are also subject to ferc jurisdiction under the interstate commerce act (the "ica"). the company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. the ica requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with the ferc. the tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. the ica requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before the ferc. rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by the ferc, primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by the ferc. for the five-year period beginning in july 2016, the ferc established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.23 percent. this adjustment is subject to review every five years. under the ferc's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the company. in addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the company. any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. however, the company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent, if not better given the company's firm transportation contracts, as to its similarly situated competitors. in november 2009, the federal trade commission (the "ftc") issued regulations pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1 million per violation per day, subject to annual inflation adjustment. the commodity futures trading commission (the "cftc") has also issued anti-manipulation rules that subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1 million per violation, subject to annual inflation adjustment, or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. see "items 1a. risk factors - the company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, ngl, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks." energy commodity prices . sales prices of oil, condensate, ngl and gas are not currently regulated and sales are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the u.s. congress historically has been 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the u.s. congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company's transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; worldwide oil, ngl and gas inventory levels, including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the price and quantity of oil, ngl and lng imports to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances or social attitudes or policies affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, climate change regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; stockholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of capital for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and gas; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels. commodity prices have historically been, and continue to be, extremely volatile. for example, the nymex oil prices in 2018 ranged from a high of $76.41 to a low of $42.53 per bbl and the nymex gas prices in 2018 ranged from a high of $4.84 to a low of $2.55 per mmbtu. the company expects this volatility to continue. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also materially and adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased production and ad valorem taxes. decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry have historically led to cost reductions for some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. however, such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the economies in the united states and certain countries in europe and asia have been growing, with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain south american nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. if these conditions worsen, combined with a decline in economic growth in other parts of the world, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. in addition, continued hostilities in the middle east and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the united states or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish or stagnate, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas, affect the ability of the company's vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately decrease the company's cash flows and profitability. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. absent an expansion of u.s. refining and export capacity, rising u.s. production of oil and condensates could result in a surplus of these products in the u.s., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. although u.s. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated export capacity expansions, transportation and other costs. in such circumstances, the rate of return on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment, services and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to identify, evaluate, operate and develop its properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company, and as such, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage in the identification, acquisition and development of properties that complement the company's operations. to a lesser extent, the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including drilling and completion activities and water distribution, collection and disposal activities, are subject to all the risks incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as ngl and gas leaks, oil and produced water spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm"), and unauthorized discharges of toxic chemicals, gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants onto the surface or into the subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or water; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; surface access restrictions; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it increases internally-provided well services, water distribution, water collection or disposal and other services. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property and natural resources, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company may not be insured or is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could adversely affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in the permian basin of west texas, an area of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs; such concentration also makes the company vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited geographic area. the company's producing properties are geographically concentrated in the permian basin of west texas. at december 31, 2018 , 93 percent of the company's total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. in addition, the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in this area where industry activity is high. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources has increased, as well as the costs for these items. any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services and resources could result in oil, ngl and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flow and profitability. as a result of this concentration, the company may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of operations or production in this area caused by external factors such as governmental regulation, state politics, market limitations, water or sand shortages or extreme weather related conditions. the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production and other financial and operating results. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates and assumptions, including that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur. production forecasts, specifically, are based on assumptions such as: expectations of production from existing wells and future drilling activity; the absence of facility or equipment malfunctions; the absence of adverse weather effects; 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company expectations of commodity prices, which could experience significant volatility; expected well costs; and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. should any of these assumptions prove inaccurate, or should the company's development plans change, actual production could be materially and adversely affected. exploration and development drilling involve substantial costs and risks and may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; construction delays; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; title defects; lack of available gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, storage, refining or export facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with or changes in environmental and other governmental, regulatory or contractual requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2019 . part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. drilling in emerging areas is more uncertain than drilling in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established drilling operations. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas. multi-well pad drilling may result in volatility in the company's operating results. the company utilizes multi-well pad drilling where practicable, and wells drilled on a pad are not placed on production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed. in addition, problems affecting a single well could adversely affect production 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company from all of the wells on the pad. as a result, multi-well pad drilling can cause delays in the scheduled commencement of production, or interruptions in ongoing production. these delays or interruptions may cause volatility in the company's operating results. further, any delay, reduction or curtailment of the company's development and producing operations due to operational delays caused by multi-well pad drilling could result in the loss of acreage through lease expirations. the company's use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and gas, which could materially and adversely affect the results of its drilling operations. even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. as a result, the company's drilling activities may not be successful or economic. in addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-d seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and the company could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2018 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 55 mmbbls of oil, 24 mmbbls of ngl and 142 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and cost of capital, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel, and drilling results. there can be no assurance that the company will drill these locations or that the company will be able to produce oil or gas reserves from these locations or any other potential drilling locations. well results vary by formation and geographic area, and the company's drilling activities are generally focused on remaining locations that are believed to offer the highest return. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations, the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. restrictions on the company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. water is an essential component of the company's drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. limitations or restrictions on the company's ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought), could materially and adversely impact its operations. severe drought conditions can result in local water districts taking steps to restrict the use of water in their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply. if the company is unable to obtain water to use in its operations from local sources, it may need to be obtained from new sources and transported to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company must dispose of the fluids produced from oil and gas production operations, including produced water, which it does directly or through the use of third party vendors. the legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water into a non-producing geologic formation by means of underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. one such concern arises from seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and gas activities. in 2016, the united states geological survey identified texas as being among the states with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. in response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. for example, in texas, the texas railroad commission has adopted rules governing the permitting or re-permitting of wells used to dispose of produced water and other fluids resulting from the production of oil and gas in order to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. states may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. these developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by the company or by commercial disposal well vendors whom the company may use from time to time to dispose of produced water. increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to limit or prohibit oil and gas activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. any one or more of these developments may result in the company or its vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require the company or its vendors to shut down or curtail the injection of produced water into disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational and regulatory risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2018 , the company owned interests in 11 gas processing plants, including the related gathering systems, and two treating facilities. the company is the operator of the two treating facilities and none of the gas processing plants. two of the gas processing facilities are under construction and one of the treating facilities is not currently being used. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants and the associated gathering systems. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of gas processing plants, gathering systems or treating facilities could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. moreover, while the company's gas processing operations are generally not subject to ferc or state regulation with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service, there can be no assurance that such processing operations will continue to be unregulated in the future. although the processing facilities may not be directly regulated, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowables from gas wells, which could impact the company's processing business. such regulation could result in additional costs and reduced revenues. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. for example, following hurricane harvey in 2017 and hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the inability of certain texas gulf coast ngl fractionators to operate. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitations in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, storage, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, or lack of capacity at such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with a ferc-related pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngl and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to satisfy their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions, delays or cancellations and have a material adverse effect on the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company conducts hydraulic fracturing in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand or other proppants and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar agencies, but in recent years, several federal agencies have conducted investigations or asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, in 2016, the epa released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that "water cycle" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. additionally, the epa has asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the sdwa's uic program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance in 2014 covering such activities. moreover, in 2014, the epa published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing under the toxic substances control act and, in 2016, published a final rule under the cwa prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants. also, the blm published a final rule in 2015 establishing new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and american indian lands, but the blm rescinded the rule in december 2017. however, litigation was filed in federal court in january 2018 challenging the blm's rescission of the 2015 rule and legal challenges remain pending. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the additives used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition, certain states, including texas where the company operates, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. states could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of new york. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may be adopted to restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. in texas, legislation was adopted providing that the regulation of oil and gas operations in texas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and thus preempts local regulation of those operations. nonetheless, municipalities and political subdivisions in texas continue to have the right to enact "commercially reasonable" regulations for surface activities. in the event federal, state or local restrictions pertaining to hydraulic fracturing are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements, experience restrictions, delays or cancellations in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves; one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the drilling of wells, rates of production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, ngl and gas, and the discharging of materials into the environment and environmental protection. in connection with its operations, the company must obtain and maintain numerous environmental and oil and gas-related permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. the need to obtain permits has the potential to delay, curtail or cease the development of oil and gas projects. over the next several years, the company may be charged royalties on gas emissions or required to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions-related issues. for example, in 2015, the epa issued a final rule under the caa lowering the national ambient air quality standard ("naaqs") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company under standards to provide protection of public health and welfare. in 2017 and 2018, the epa issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone as either "attainment/unclassifiable," "unclassifiable" or "non-attainment." additionally, in november 2018, the epa issued final requirements that apply to state, local and tribal air agencies for implementing the 2015 naaqs for ground-level ozone. state implementation of the revised naaqs could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, resulting in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase the company's capital expenditures and operating costs. in another example, in 2016, the epa published a final rule on the criteria for aggregating multiple surface sites into a single source for air-quality permitting purposes that is applicable to the oil and gas industry. this rule could cause small surface sites and the equipment at those sites to be aggregated for air emissions permitting purposes; however, in november 2018, the epa published a final action that reinterprets source aggregation in a manner that could lessen the likelihood that air projects are aggregated for permitting. in a third example, the epa and u.s. army corps of engineers (the "corps") released a final rule in 2015 outlining federal jurisdictional reach under the cwa over waters of the u.s., including wetlands. beginning in the first quarter of 2017, the epa and the corps agreed to reconsider the 2015 rule and, thereafter, the agencies have (i) published a proposed rule in july 2017 to rescind the 2015 rule and recodify the regulatory text that governed waters of the u.s. prior to promulgation of the 2015 rule, (ii) published a proposed rule in november 2017 and a final rule in february 2018 adding a february 6, 2020 applicable date to the 2015 rule, and (iii) announced a proposed rule on december 11, 2018, redefining the cwa's jurisdiction over waters of the u.s. for which the agencies will seek public comment. the 2015 and february 2018 final rules are being challenged by various factions in federal district court and implementation of the 2015 rule has been enjoined in 28 states pending resolution of the various federal district court challenges. as a result of these legal developments, future implementation of the 2015 rule or a revised rule is uncertain at this time. future compliance with these legal requirements or with any new or amended environmental laws or regulations could, among other things, delay, restrict or prohibit the issuance of necessary permits, increase the company's capital expenditures and operating expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the company's operations are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal occupational safety and health act and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of employees. among other things, the occupational safety and health act hazard communication standard, the epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of the federal superfund amendment and reauthorization act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. there can be no assurance that existing or future regulations will not result in a delay, curtailment or cessation of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or materially and adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups or corrective actions, delays in permitting or performance of projects, natural resource damages and other liabilities. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. in addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement in the future with more stringent legal requirements. further, any delay, reduction or curtailment of the company's development and producing operations due to these laws and regulations could result in the loss of acreage through lease expiration. the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company. the company's assets and production operations may give rise to significant environmental costs and liabilities as a result of the company's handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. the company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, treatment, storage, transport and disposal of wastes, hazardous substances and petroleum hydrocarbons and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil and produced water spills, ngl and gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of such wastes, substances and hydrocarbons, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. for example, drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the company's exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently excluded under rcra from the definition of hazardous waste. these wastes are instead regulated under rcra's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. there have been efforts from time to time to remove this exclusion, which removal could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. for example, in december 2016, the epa entered into a settlement agreement with several non-governmental environmental groups in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia regarding the agency's alleged failure to timely assess its rcra subtitle d criteria regulations for oil and gas wastes. under the terms of the settlement, the epa is required to propose no later than march 15, 2019, a rulemaking for the revision of certain subtitle d criteria regulations pertaining to oil and gas wastes or sign a determination that revision of the regulations is unnecessary. if the epa proposes a rulemaking for revised oil and gas waste regulations, the settlement requires that the epa take final action following notice and comment rulemaking no later than july 15, 2021. 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company currently owns, leases or operates, and in the past has owned, leased or operated, properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. these wastes, substances and hydrocarbons may also be released during future operations. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by predecessors or previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or damage to property or natural resources. such properties and the substances disposed or released on or under them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws, which could require the company to remove previously disposed substances, wastes and petroleum hydrocarbons, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not insurable or fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces, while the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the company's production and cause it to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of ghgs. these efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. in november 2018, the trump administration released the second volume of the fourth interagency national climate assessment that is issued pursuant to federal law. the current version outlines potentially severe climate-related impairments for the united states' environment, economy and public health, which are indicated to worsen over time unless significant measures are taken to, among other things, reduce ghg emissions. this assessment could serve as a basis for increasing governmental pursuit of policies to restrict ghg emissions. in the u.s., no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented at the federal level to date. in the absence of federal ghg-limiting legislation, the epa has determined that ghg emissions present a danger to public health and the environment and has adopted rules under authority of the caa that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the prevention of significant deterioration in air quality by ghg emissions from large stationary sources that are already potential sources of significant pollutant emissions. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct or modify in the future. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the company's facilities. federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a ghg, from oil and gas operations. in 2016, the epa published a final rule establishing new source performance standards, known as subpart ooooa, that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and gas sector to reduce certain methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. these subpart ooooa standards expand previously issued new source performance standards, published by the epa in 2012 and known as subpart oooo, by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices. however, in june 2017, the epa published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these subpart ooooa standards for two years and revisit the entirety of the 2016 standard, but the rule has not been finalized. rather, in february 2018, the epa finalized amendments to certain requirements of the 2016 final rule and, in september 2018, the agency proposed additional amendments that included rescission or revision of certain requirements such as fugitive emission monitoring frequency. furthermore, in 2016, the blm published a final rule to reduce methane emissions by regulating venting, flaring and leaking from oil and gas operations on public lands. however, in september 2018, the blm published a final rule that rescinds most of the requirements in the 2016 final rule and codifies the blm's prior approach to venting and flaring. the rescission of the requirements in the 2016 final rule is being challenged in federal court. at the state level, some states are considering and other states have issued requirements for the performance of leak detection programs that identify and repair methane leaks at certain oil and gas sources. state rules may be more stringent than federal rules. 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company compliance with the epa's 2016 rule and the blm's 2016 rule, to the extent either are in effect, or with any future federal or state methane regulations could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment and significantly increase the company's capital expenditures and operating costs. internationally, in late 2015, the u.s. joined other countries in entering into a united nations sponsored non-binding agreement in paris, france for nations to limit their ghg emissions through individually determined emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. in august 2017, the u.s. state department informed the united nations of the united states' intention to withdraw from this paris agreement, which provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in november 2016. the adoption and implementation of any federal or state legislation or regulations or international agreements that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased capital and operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, such new legislation or regulatory programs as well as conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to climate change could also materially and adversely affect demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces and lower the value of its reserves. depending on the severity of any such limitations, the effect on the value of the company's reserves could be material. non-governmental activism directed at shifting funding away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector. in addition, increasing attention to the risks of climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of lawsuits brought by public and private entities against oil and gas companies in connection with their ghg emissions. should the company be targeted by any such litigation, it may incur substantial costs, which, to the extent that societal pressures or political or other factors are involved, could be imposed without regard to the causation of or contribution to the asserted damage, or to other mitigating factors. finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other extreme climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on the company's exploration and production operations. laws and regulations pertaining to protection of threatened and endangered species or to critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources could delay, restrict or prohibit the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on the company's development and production of reserves. the federal esa and comparable state laws were established to protect endangered and threatened species. under the esa, if a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species' habitat. similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the federal migratory bird treaty act. oil and gas operations in the company's operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions imposed on drilling activities by the u.s. fish and wildlife services (the "fws") that are designed to protect various wildlife, which may materially restrict the company's access to federal or private land use. permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered and threatened species could prohibit drilling in certain areas, impact suppliers of critical materials or services, or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. additionally, federal statutes, including the cwa, the opa and cercla, as well as comparable state laws, prohibit certain actions that adversely affect critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, as a result of one or more settlements entered into by the fws, the agency is required to make determinations on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays, restrictions or prohibitions on its development and production activities that could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. significant or extended price declines could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to the carrying value of its proved oil and gas properties. the company performs assessments of its oil and gas properties whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. in order to perform these assessments, management uses various observable and unobservable inputs, including management's outlooks for (i) proved reserves and risk- 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company adjusted probable and possible reserves, (ii) commodity prices, (iii) production costs, (iv) capital expenditures and (v) production. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2018 and 2017 the company recorded impairment charges of $77 million and $285 million , respectively, attributable to its raton basin field in southeast colorado, and in 2016, the company recorded an impairment charge of $32 million attributable to its west panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of texas, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. a portion of the company's total estimated proved reserves at december 31, 2018 were undeveloped, and those proved reserves may not ultimately be developed. at december 31, 2018 , approximately eight percent of the company's total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. recovery of undeveloped proved reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. the company's reserve data assumes that the company can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which assumptions may not prove to be correct. if the company chooses not to spend the capital to develop these proved undeveloped reserves, or if the company is not otherwise able to successfully develop these proved undeveloped reserves, the company will be required to write-off these proved reserves. in addition, under the sec's rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells planned to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, the company may be required to write-off any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this five-year timeframe. as with all oil and gas leases, the company's leases require the company to drill wells that are commercially productive and to maintain the production in paying quantities, and if the company is unsuccessful in drilling such wells and maintaining such production, the company could lose its rights under such leases. the company's future production levels and, therefore, its future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing its proved undeveloped leasehold acreage. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future development costs, operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, gathering, processing, transportation and fractionation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; the level of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngl and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a historical 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for future oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties to determine recoverability of its cost and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2018 , the company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $601 million . gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases and the contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions. producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates, which vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time as those reserves are produced, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions of additional recoverable reserves. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace its current or future production. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could materially and adversely affect its business. acquisitions of oil and gas properties, including acreage trades, have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including, among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain pre-closing matters, such as matters of litigation, environmental contingencies, royalty obligations and income taxes. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, ngls and gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. the ferc, the ftc and the cftc hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company's business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company's transportation of gas in interstate commerce, physical sales and purchases of oil, ngl, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failures to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses; the company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive. to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative contract and actual prices received; a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil and gas prices; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. this could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the company's production volumes forecasted for 2019 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. in addition, the company's derivatives arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. the company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. even if the company accurately predicts sudden changes, the company's ability to negate the risk may be limited 28 table of contents pioneer natural resources company depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. during periods of declining commodity prices, the company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the company's counterparty credit exposure. if any of the company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company's future production being subject to commodity price changes and could increase the likelihood that the company's derivative arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. the enactment of derivatives legislation could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") enacted in july 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations for its implementation. while many dodd-frank act regulations are already in effect, the rulemaking and implementation process is ongoing, and the ultimate effect of the adopted rules and regulations and any future rules and regulations on the company's business remain uncertain. in one of the rulemaking proceedings still pending under the dodd-frank act, the cftc issued in december 2016, proposed rules imposing position limits for certain futures and options contracts in various commodities (including oil and gas) and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. under the proposed rules on position limits, certain types of derivative transactions are exempt from these limits, provided that such derivative transactions satisfy the cftc's requirements for certain enumerated "bona fide" derivative transactions. these rules may affect both the size of the positions that the company may hold and the ability or willingness of counterparties to trade with the company, potentially increasing the costs of transactions. moreover, such changes could materially reduce the company's access to derivative opportunities, which could adversely affect revenues or cash flow during periods of low commodity prices. as these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the company is uncertain at this time. the cftc has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. although the company believes it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, the company may be required to clear such transactions. the ultimate effect of the proposed rules and any additional regulations on the company's business is uncertain. in addition, certain banking regulators and the cftc have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. although the company expects to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps entered into to manage its commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if any of the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, the posting of collateral could reduce its liquidity and cash available for capital expenditures and could reduce its ability to manage commodity price volatility and the volatility in its cash flows. the full impact of the dodd-frank act and related regulatory requirements upon the company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters and reduce the company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the dodd-frank act and regulations, the company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could materially and adversely affect the company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company's revenues could therefore be materially and adversely affected if a consequence of the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. in addition, the european union and other non-u.s. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. to the extent the company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. at this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear. the future of the sec and cftc's rulemaking remains uncertain. regulatory agendas that were released in late 2017 indicated that the sec and cftc plan to pursue fewer rulemaking items than in prior years. for example, the cftc announced its intent to take action on an agency-wide internal review focused on simplifying and modernizing cftc rules, regulations and 29 table of contents pioneer natural resources company practices and focus on streamlining the implementation of existing regulations and practices. although the sec and the cftc's agendas are less expansive than they have been in the past, wholesale deregulation of the markets will not necessarily be the outcome. for example, the cftc plans to take a new look at passing rules on position limits for certain futures contracts, and the sec intends to re-propose rules for "plain vanilla" exchange-traded funds and add amendments to the volcker rule. the trump administration has also indicated in public statements that the dodd-frank act will be under scrutiny and that some of its provisions and the rules promulgated thereunder may be revised, repealed or amended. any such changes, including their nature and impact, cannot yet be determined with any degree of certainty. moreover, regulation by the cftc and banking regulators of the over-the-counter derivatives market and market participants could cause the company's contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail or cease their derivatives activities, which could materially and adversely affect the cost and availability of derivatives to the company. finally, the european union and other non-u.s. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. to the extent the company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions or counterparties with other businesses that subject them to regulations in foreign jurisdictions, the company may become subject to, or otherwise affected by, such regulations. the company is a party to debt instruments, a credit facility and other financial commitments that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and maintains a credit facility that is currently undrawn. the terms of the company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. in addition, from time to time, the company enters into arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations, including firm purchase, transportation and fractionation commitments, gathering, processing and transportation commitments on uncertain volumes of future throughput, commitments to purchase minimum volumes of goods and services, operating lease agreements and drilling commitments. the company's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business including, but not limited to, the following: the incurrence of charges associated with unused commitments if future events do not meet the company's expectations at the time such commitments are entered into; increasing its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and industry; limiting its ability to fund future development activities or engage in future acquisitions; and placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. a ratings downgrade could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to access debt markets, increase the borrowing cost under the company's credit facility and the cost of future debt and potentially require the company to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - capital commitments, capital resources and liquidity" and note 7 and note 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. the company's ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase shares is subject to certain considerations. dividends are authorized and determined by the company's board of directors in its sole discretion, and the repurchase of shares pursuant to the company's stock repurchase program are made from time to time based on management's discretion. decisions regarding the payment of dividends and the repurchase of shares are subject to a number of considerations, including: cash available for distribution; the company's results of operations and anticipated future results of operations; the company's financial condition, especially in relation to the anticipated future capital needs; the level of cash reserves the company may establish to fund future capital expenditures; the company's stock price; and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. 30 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company can provide no assurance that it will continue to pay dividends or authorize share repurchases at the current rate or at all. any elimination of or downward revision in the company's dividend payout or stock repurchase program could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the company's common stock. the company's business could be materially and adversely affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to, or control of, sensitive information or to render data or systems corrupted or unusable; threats to the security of the company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, the company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. costs for insurance may also increase as a result of security threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated. the company relies extensively on information technology systems, including internet sites, computer software, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting its business. the company's technologies systems and networks, and those of its business associates may become the target of cybersecurity attacks, including without limitation denial-of-service attacks, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees, insiders or others with authorized access, cyber or phishing-attacks, ransomeware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems and materially and adversely affect the company in a variety of ways, including the following: unauthorized access to and release of seismic data, reserves information, strategic information or other sensitive or proprietary information, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to compete for oil and gas resources; data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions during drilling activities, which could result in the failure to reach the intended target or a drilling incident; data corruption or operational disruptions of production infrastructure, which could result in loss of production or accidental discharges; unauthorized access to and release of personal information of royalty owners, employees and vendors, which could expose the company to allegations that it did not sufficiently protect that information; a cybersecurity attack on a vendor or service provider, which could result in supply chain disruptions and could delay or halt operations; a cybersecurity attack on third-party gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, which could delay or prevent the company from transporting and marketing its production, resulting in a loss of revenues; a cybersecurity attack on a communications network or power grid, which could cause operational disruptions resulting in the loss of revenues; and a cybersecurity attack on the company's automated and surveillance systems, which could cause a loss in production and potential environmental hazards. these events could damage the company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. additionally, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period of time. as cyber threats continue to evolve, the company may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. additionally, the continuing and evolving threat of cybersecurity attacks has resulted in evolving legal and compliance matters, including increased regulatory focus on prevention, which could require the company to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. provisions of the company's charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. provisions in the company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow 31 table of contents pioneer natural resources company changes in the company's board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2018 , the company had a carrying value for goodwill of $264 million . goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (i) positive or negative reserve adjustments, (ii) results of drilling activities, (iii) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (iv) changes in the company's market capitalization, (v) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (vi) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance. ownership of industrial sand mining operations is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the company's control. these risks include: unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures; cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls; unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions; inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change; environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants; changes in laws and regulations; inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights; restrictions on blasting operations; inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts; reduction in the amount of water available for processing; technical difficulties or failures; labor disputes; late delivery of supplies; fires, explosions or other accidents; and facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions. any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. not all of these risks are insurable, and the company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. the company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have an adverse effect on the company. the company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities. the company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to: employee health and safety; permitting and licensing; air emissions and water discharges, ghg emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination; land use restrictions; reclamation and restoration of properties; and wastes, hazardous substances and other regulated materials and natural resources. 32 table of contents pioneer natural resources company sand mining operations require numerous governmental, mining and other permits and water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility, and are subject to extensive regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. obtaining or renewing required permits or approvals may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the company's control. moreover, issuance of any permits, permit renewals or other approvals by governmental agencies may be conditioned on new or modified requirements or procedures with respect to mining that may be costly or time-consuming to implement. a decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have an adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the cercla, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of wastes, hazardous substances and other regulated materials or otherwise conduct the company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental and occupational health and safety laws could expose the company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, and exposure of workers or other persons to petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes or hazardous substances, as well as potentially impair the company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. the federal mine safety and health act of 1977, as amended by the mine improvement and new emergency response act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. furthermore, laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or re-interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. while the company's environmental compliance costs under existing laws and regulations with respect to its sand mining operations have not historically had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future. future compliance costs also may be incurred by the company in connection increased governmental standards or permissible exposure limits for worker health and safety that are imposed in the future for added protection of workers from exposure to pollutants including crystalline silica dust. moreover, such future environmental and occupational health and safety compliance with existing, new or amended laws and regulations could restrict the company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations or reclamation thereof, which restrictions, costs or expenses could have an adverse effect on the company's sand mining operations. any failure by the company to comply with applicable laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely affect the company, including: issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations; imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; obligations to install new or improved controls or provide additional personal protective equipment to mitigate exposure to pollutants such as crystalline silica dust; and requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. the company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company. the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. there is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. these health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. the actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits, recently adopted osha silica regulations and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. pioneer sands llc ("pioneer sands"), the company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary, is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of pioneer sands or its commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. as of december 31, 2018 , pioneer sands was the subject of silica exposure claims from 16 plaintiffs. almost all of the claims pending against pioneer sands arise out of the alleged use of pioneer sands' sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of texas, mississippi and alabama, although some cases have been brought in other jurisdictions over the years. 33 table of contents pioneer natural resources company it is possible that pioneer sands will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. in addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the company's other operations, including its hydraulic fracturing operations. any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, ngls and gas within the united states, with operations primarily in the permian basin in west texas. the company is a delaware corporation, and its common stock has been listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd" since its formation in 1997. the company's principal executive office is located at 5205 n. o'connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company also maintains an office in midland, texas and field offices in its areas of operation. at december 31, 2018 , pioneer had 3,177 employees, 1,006 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 618 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the sec maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the company makes available free of charge through its website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to be america's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. the company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives: maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; delivering economic production and reserve growth; enhancing drilling, completion and production activities by utilizing the company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency; developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner; and stewarding the environment through industry leading sustainable development efforts. the company's long-term strategy is primarily anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in the permian basin in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying the spraberry/wolfcamp field is 93 percent of the company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2018 . in february 2018, the company announced its intention to divest its properties in the south texas, raton basin and west panhandle fields and focus its efforts and capital resources on its permian basin assets. in 2018, the company completed the following divestitures: field completion date sinor nest (lower wilcox) oil field (south texas) december 2018 west panhandle gas and liquids field (texas panhandle) august 2018 raton basin gas field (southern colorado) july 2018 western portion of eagle ford shale gas and liquids field (south texas) april 2018 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company continues to actively market its remaining south texas assets (eagle ford shale gas and liquids field and edwards gas field). no assurance can be given that the remaining planned divestitures will be completed in accordance with the company's plans or on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. business activities pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogeneous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. the company's portfolio of resources and opportunities are primarily located in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field, and provide long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. petroleum industry. over the past several years, the oil price environment has been characterized by high volatility. during 2018, brent oil prices rose to a high of $86.29 per barrel in early october 2018, only to fall late in the fourth quarter to a low of $50.47 per barrel due to concerns over a worldwide oversupply of oil, in large part resulting from dramatic increases in u.s. shale oil production. additionally, concerns about the potential for slower growth in u.s. and global gross domestic products, which would likely be accompanied by lower oil demand, has contributed to the downward pressure. recently, the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") members and some nonmembers, including russia, have renewed pledges to reduce planned production in an effort to draw down a global oversupply and to rebalance supply and demand. geopolitical factors may also be price-supportive, with the united states having issued sanctions against iran, although the impact of those sanctions has been muted by waivers. the company expects ongoing oil price volatility as compliance with the output reduction agreements, changes in oil inventories, extensions to iranian waivers and actual demand growth is reported. the growth of unconventional shale drilling in the united states has substantially increased the supply of gas and ngls, resulting in a significant decline in related prices as the supply of these products has grown. while the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase takeaway capacity, such as the construction of liquefied natural gas ("lng") and ngl export facilities, the supply of these products has increased at a faster pace than the overall united states and international demand for these commodities. ngl products and gas supplies are expected to continue to increase during 2019 and prices are expected to remain volatile. significant factors that are likely to affect 2019 commodity prices include: the effect of u.s. energy, monetary and trade policies; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government; the pace of economic growth in the u.s. and throughout the world, including the potential for macro weakness; geopolitical and economic developments in the u.s. and globally; the extent to which members of opec and other oil exporting nations adhere to and agree to extend the agreed oil production cuts; the supply and demand fundamentals for ngls in the united states and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals, including incremental lng export capacity additions. because the global economic and political outlook and commodity price environment are uncertain, the company endeavors to maintain a strong financial liquidity position to support its financial flexibility. pioneer enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, ngl and gas transportation capacity from the company's areas of production with the objective of transporting a portion of the company's oil and gas sales to higher priced markets. specifically, the company has entered into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the company's oil sales to the gulf coast refinery or international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. these marketing activities provided incremental cash flow of $458 million in 2018, compared to cash outlays of $31 million and $64 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. additionally the company uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. the company has entered into derivative contracts for only a small portion of its forecasted 2019 production; consequently, if commodity prices decline, the company could realize lower prices for volumes not protected by the company's derivative activities and could see a reduction in derivative contract prices available on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices or to the extent that sales prices do not cover the third-party purchase price and cost of transportation for that portion of volumes transported to other markets. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information. seasonal nature of business. generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. significant purchasers. during 2018 , the company's significant purchasers of oil, ngl and gas produced by the company were sunoco logistics partners l.p. ( 28 percent ), occidental energy marketing inc. ( 17 percent ) and plains marketing l.p. ( 15 percent ). the loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure for its permian basin production could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to produce and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company during 2018 , the company's significant purchaser of oil and gas purchased from third parties was occidental energy marketing inc. ( 34 percent ). no other purchaser of oil or gas purchased by the company from third parties exceeded ten percent during 2018 . the loss of a significant purchaser of purchased oil and gas would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell commodities it purchases from third parties. see note 12 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; worldwide oil, ngl and gas inventory levels, including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the price and quantity of oil, ngl and lng imports to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances or social attitudes or policies affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, climate change regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; stockholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of capital for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and gas; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels. commodity prices have historically been, and continue to be, extremely volatile. for example, the nymex oil prices in 2018 ranged from a high of $76.41 to a low of $42.53 per bbl and the nymex gas prices in 2018 ranged from a high of $4.84 to a low of $2.55 per mmbtu. the company expects this volatility to continue. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also materially and adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased production and ad valorem taxes. decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry have historically led to cost reductions for some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. however, such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the economies in the united states and certain countries in europe and asia have been growing, with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain south american nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. if these conditions worsen, combined with a decline in economic growth in other parts of the world, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. in addition, continued hostilities in the middle east and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the united states or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish or stagnate, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas, affect the ability of the company's vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately decrease the company's cash flows and profitability. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. absent an expansion of u.s. refining and export capacity, rising u.s. production of oil and condensates could result in a surplus of these products in the u.s., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. although u.s. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated export capacity expansions, transportation and other costs. in such circumstances, the rate of return on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment, services and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to identify, evaluate, operate and develop its properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company, and as such, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage in the identification, acquisition and development of properties that complement the company's operations. to a lesser extent, the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including drilling and completion activities and water distribution, collection and disposal activities, are subject to all the risks incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as ngl and gas leaks, oil and produced water spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm"), and unauthorized discharges of toxic chemicals, gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants onto the surface or into the subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or water; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; surface access restrictions; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it increases internally-provided well services, water distribution, water collection or disposal and other services. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property and natural resources, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company may not be insured or is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could adversely affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in the permian basin of west texas, an area of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs; such concentration also makes the company vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited geographic area. the company's producing properties are geographically concentrated in the permian basin of west texas. at december 31, 2018 , 93 percent of the company's total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. in addition, the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in this area where industry activity is high. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources has increased, as well as the costs for these items. any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services and resources could result in oil, ngl and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flow and profitability. as a result of this concentration, the company may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of operations or production in this area caused by external factors such as governmental regulation, state politics, market limitations, water or sand shortages or extreme weather related conditions. the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production and other financial and operating results. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates and assumptions, including that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur. production forecasts, specifically, are based on assumptions such as: expectations of production from existing wells and future drilling activity; the absence of facility or equipment malfunctions; the absence of adverse weather effects; 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company expectations of commodity prices, which could experience significant volatility; expected well costs; and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. should any of these assumptions prove inaccurate, or should the company's development plans change, actual production could be materially and adversely affected. exploration and development drilling involve substantial costs and risks and may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; construction delays; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; title defects; lack of available gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, storage, refining or export facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with or changes in environmental and other governmental, regulatory or contractual requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2019 . part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. drilling in emerging areas is more uncertain than drilling in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established drilling operations. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas. multi-well pad drilling may result in volatility in the company's operating results. the company utilizes multi-well pad drilling where practicable, and wells drilled on a pad are not placed on production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed. in addition, problems affecting a single well could adversely affect production 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company from all of the wells on the pad. as a result, multi-well pad drilling can cause delays in the scheduled commencement of production, or interruptions in ongoing production. these delays or interruptions may cause volatility in the company's operating results. further, any delay, reduction or curtailment of the company's development and producing operations due to operational delays caused by multi-well pad drilling could result in the loss of acreage through lease expirations. the company's use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and gas, which could materially and adversely affect the results of its drilling operations. even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. as a result, the company's drilling activities may not be successful or economic. in addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-d seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and the company could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2018 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 55 mmbbls of oil, 24 mmbbls of ngl and 142 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and cost of capital, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel, and drilling results. there can be no assurance that the company will drill these locations or that the company will be able to produce oil or gas reserves from these locations or any other potential drilling locations. well results vary by formation and geographic area, and the company's drilling activities are generally focused on remaining locations that are believed to offer the highest return. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations, the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. restrictions on the company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. water is an essential component of the company's drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. limitations or restrictions on the company's ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought), could materially and adversely impact its operations. severe drought conditions can result in local water districts taking steps to restrict the use of water in their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply. if the company is unable to obtain water to use in its operations from local sources, it may need to be obtained from new sources and transported to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company must dispose of the fluids produced from oil and gas production operations, including produced water, which it does directly or through the use of third party vendors. the legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water into a non-producing geologic formation by means of underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. one such concern arises from seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and gas activities. in 2016, the united states geological survey identified texas as being among the states with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. in response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. for example, in texas, the texas railroad commission has adopted rules governing the permitting or re-permitting of wells used to dispose of produced water and other fluids resulting from the production of oil and gas in order to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. states may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. these developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by the company or by commercial disposal well vendors whom the company may use from time to time to dispose of produced water. increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to limit or prohibit oil and gas activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. any one or more of these developments may result in the company or its vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require the company or its vendors to shut down or curtail the injection of produced water into disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's gas processing operations are subject to operational and regulatory risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2018 , the company owned interests in 11 gas processing plants, including the related gathering systems, and two treating facilities. the company is the operator of the two treating facilities and none of the gas processing plants. two of the gas processing facilities are under construction and one of the treating facilities is not currently being used. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants and the associated gathering systems. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of gas processing plants, gathering systems or treating facilities could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. moreover, while the company's gas processing operations are generally not subject to ferc or state regulation with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service, there can be no assurance that such processing operations will continue to be unregulated in the future. although the processing facilities may not be directly regulated, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowables from gas wells, which could impact the company's processing business. such regulation could result in additional costs and reduced revenues. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. for example, following hurricane harvey in 2017 and hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the inability of certain texas gulf coast ngl fractionators to operate. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitations in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, storage, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, or lack of capacity at such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with a ferc-related pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngl and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to satisfy their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions, delays or cancellations and have a material adverse effect on the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company conducts hydraulic fracturing in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand or other proppants and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar agencies, but in recent years, several federal agencies have conducted investigations or asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, in 2016, the epa released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that "water cycle" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. additionally, the epa has asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the sdwa's uic program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance in 2014 covering such activities. moreover, in 2014, the epa published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing under the toxic substances control act and, in 2016, published a final rule under the cwa prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants. also, the blm published a final rule in 2015 establishing new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and american indian lands, but the blm rescinded the rule in december 2017. however, litigation was filed in federal court in january 2018 challenging the blm's rescission of the 2015 rule and legal challenges remain pending. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the additives used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition, certain states, including texas where the company operates, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. states could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of new york. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may be adopted to restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. in texas, legislation was adopted providing that the regulation of oil and gas operations in texas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and thus preempts local regulation of those operations. nonetheless, municipalities and political subdivisions in texas continue to have the right to enact "commercially reasonable" regulations for surface activities. in the event federal, state or local restrictions pertaining to hydraulic fracturing are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements, experience restrictions, delays or cancellations in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves; one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the drilling of wells, rates of production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, ngl and gas, and the discharging of materials into the environment and environmental protection. in connection with its operations, the company must obtain and maintain numerous environmental and oil and gas-related permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. the need to obtain permits has the potential to delay, curtail or cease the development of oil and gas projects. over the next several years, the company may be charged royalties on gas emissions or required to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions-related issues. for example, in 2015, the epa issued a final rule under the caa lowering the national ambient air quality standard ("naaqs") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company under standards to provide protection of public health and welfare. in 2017 and 2018, the epa issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone as either "attainment/unclassifiable," "unclassifiable" or "non-attainment." additionally, in november 2018, the epa issued final requirements that apply to state, local and tribal air agencies for implementing the 2015 naaqs for ground-level ozone. state implementation of the revised naaqs could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, resulting in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase the company's capital expenditures and operating costs. in another example, in 2016, the epa published a final rule on the criteria for aggregating multiple surface sites into a single source for air-quality permitting purposes that is applicable to the oil and gas industry. this rule could cause small surface sites and the equipment at those sites to be aggregated for air emissions permitting purposes; however, in november 2018, the epa published a final action that reinterprets source aggregation in a manner that could lessen the likelihood that air projects are aggregated for permitting. in a third example, the epa and u.s. army corps of engineers (the "corps") released a final rule in 2015 outlining federal jurisdictional reach under the cwa over waters of the u.s., including wetlands. beginning in the first quarter of 2017, the epa and the corps agreed to reconsider the 2015 rule and, thereafter, the agencies have (i) published a proposed rule in july 2017 to rescind the 2015 rule and recodify the regulatory text that governed waters of the u.s. prior to promulgation of the 2015 rule, (ii) published a proposed rule in november 2017 and a final rule in february 2018 adding a february 6, 2020 applicable date to the 2015 rule, and (iii) announced a proposed rule on december 11, 2018, redefining the cwa's jurisdiction over waters of the u.s. for which the agencies will seek public comment. the 2015 and february 2018 final rules are being challenged by various factions in federal district court and implementation of the 2015 rule has been enjoined in 28 states pending resolution of the various federal district court challenges. as a result of these legal developments, future implementation of the 2015 rule or a revised rule is uncertain at this time. future compliance with these legal requirements or with any new or amended environmental laws or regulations could, among other things, delay, restrict or prohibit the issuance of necessary permits, increase the company's capital expenditures and operating expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the company's operations are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal occupational safety and health act and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of employees. among other things, the occupational safety and health act hazard communication standard, the epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of the federal superfund amendment and reauthorization act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. there can be no assurance that existing or future regulations will not result in a delay, curtailment or cessation of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or materially and adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups or corrective actions, delays in permitting or performance of projects, natural resource damages and other liabilities. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. in addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement in the future with more stringent legal requirements. further, any delay, reduction or curtailment of the company's development and producing operations due to these laws and regulations could result in the loss of acreage through lease expiration. the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company. the company's assets and production operations may give rise to significant environmental costs and liabilities as a result of the company's handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. the company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, treatment, storage, transport and disposal of wastes, hazardous substances and petroleum hydrocarbons and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil and produced water spills, ngl and gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of such wastes, substances and hydrocarbons, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. for example, drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the company's exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently excluded under rcra from the definition of hazardous waste. these wastes are instead regulated under rcra's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. there have been efforts from time to time to remove this exclusion, which removal could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. for example, in december 2016, the epa entered into a settlement agreement with several non-governmental environmental groups in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia regarding the agency's alleged failure to timely assess its rcra subtitle d criteria regulations for oil and gas wastes. under the terms of the settlement, the epa is required to propose no later than march 15, 2019, a rulemaking for the revision of certain subtitle d criteria regulations pertaining to oil and gas wastes or sign a determination that revision of the regulations is unnecessary. if the epa proposes a rulemaking for revised oil and gas waste regulations, the settlement requires that the epa take final action following notice and comment rulemaking no later than july 15, 2021. 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company currently owns, leases or operates, and in the past has owned, leased or operated, properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. these wastes, substances and hydrocarbons may also be released during future operations. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by predecessors or previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or damage to property or natural resources. such properties and the substances disposed or released on or under them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws, which could require the company to remove previously disposed substances, wastes and petroleum hydrocarbons, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not insurable or fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of ghgs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces, while the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the company's production and cause it to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of ghgs. these efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. in november 2018, the trump administration released the second volume of the fourth interagency national climate assessment that is issued pursuant to federal law. the current version outlines potentially severe climate-related impairments for the united states' environment, economy and public health, which are indicated to worsen over time unless significant measures are taken to, among other things, reduce ghg emissions. this assessment could serve as a basis for increasing governmental pursuit of policies to restrict ghg emissions. in the u.s., no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented at the federal level to date. in the absence of federal ghg-limiting legislation, the epa has determined that ghg emissions present a danger to public health and the environment and has adopted rules under authority of the caa that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the prevention of significant deterioration in air quality by ghg emissions from large stationary sources that are already potential sources of significant pollutant emissions. the company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install "best available control technology" to limit emissions of ghgs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the company may seek to construct or modify in the future. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions on an annual basis from specified ghg emission sources in the united states, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the company's facilities. federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a ghg, from oil and gas operations. in 2016, the epa published a final rule establishing new source performance standards, known as subpart ooooa, that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and gas sector to reduce certain methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. these subpart ooooa standards expand previously issued new source performance standards, published by the epa in 2012 and known as subpart oooo, by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices. however, in june 2017, the epa published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these subpart ooooa standards for two years and revisit the entirety of the 2016 standard, but the rule has not been finalized. rather, in february 2018, the epa finalized amendments to certain requirements of the 2016 final rule and, in september 2018, the agency proposed additional amendments that included rescission or revision of certain requirements such as fugitive emission monitoring frequency. furthermore, in 2016, the blm published a final rule to reduce methane emissions by regulating venting, flaring and leaking from oil and gas operations on public lands. however, in september 2018, the blm published a final rule that rescinds most of the requirements in the 2016 final rule and codifies the blm's prior approach to venting and flaring. the rescission of the requirements in the 2016 final rule is being challenged in federal court. at the state level, some states are considering and other states have issued requirements for the performance of leak detection programs that identify and repair methane leaks at certain oil and gas sources. state rules may be more stringent than federal rules. 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company compliance with the epa's 2016 rule and the blm's 2016 rule, to the extent either are in effect, or with any future federal or state methane regulations could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment and significantly increase the company's capital expenditures and operating costs. internationally, in late 2015, the u.s. joined other countries in entering into a united nations sponsored non-binding agreement in paris, france for nations to limit their ghg emissions through individually determined emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. in august 2017, the u.s. state department informed the united nations of the united states' intention to withdraw from this paris agreement, which provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in november 2016. the adoption and implementation of any federal or state legislation or regulations or international agreements that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs from the company's equipment and operations could require the company to incur increased capital and operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, such new legislation or regulatory programs as well as conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to climate change could also materially and adversely affect demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces and lower the value of its reserves. depending on the severity of any such limitations, the effect on the value of the company's reserves could be material. non-governmental activism directed at shifting funding away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector. in addition, increasing attention to the risks of climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of lawsuits brought by public and private entities against oil and gas companies in connection with their ghg emissions. should the company be targeted by any such litigation, it may incur substantial costs, which, to the extent that societal pressures or political or other factors are involved, could be imposed without regard to the causation of or contribution to the asserted damage, or to other mitigating factors. finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other extreme climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on the company's exploration and production operations. laws and regulations pertaining to protection of threatened and endangered species or to critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources could delay, restrict or prohibit the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on the company's development and production of reserves. the federal esa and comparable state laws were established to protect endangered and threatened species. under the esa, if a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species' habitat. similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the federal migratory bird treaty act. oil and gas operations in the company's operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions imposed on drilling activities by the u.s. fish and wildlife services (the "fws") that are designed to protect various wildlife, which may materially restrict the company's access to federal or private land use. permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered and threatened species could prohibit drilling in certain areas, impact suppliers of critical materials or services, or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. additionally, federal statutes, including the cwa, the opa and cercla, as well as comparable state laws, prohibit certain actions that adversely affect critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, as a result of one or more settlements entered into by the fws, the agency is required to make determinations on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the esa. the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays, restrictions or prohibitions on its development and production activities that could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. significant or extended price declines could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to the carrying value of its proved oil and gas properties. the company performs assessments of its oil and gas properties whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. in order to perform these assessments, management uses various observable and unobservable inputs, including management's outlooks for (i) proved reserves and risk- 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company adjusted probable and possible reserves, (ii) commodity prices, (iii) production costs, (iv) capital expenditures and (v) production. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2018 and 2017 the company recorded impairment charges of $77 million and $285 million , respectively, attributable to its raton basin field in southeast colorado, and in 2016, the company recorded an impairment charge of $32 million attributable to its west panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of texas, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information. (d) open purchase commitments primarily represent expenditure commitments for inventories, materials and other property and equipment ordered, but not received, as of december 31, 2018 . (e) the company's other liabilities represent current and noncurrent other liabilities that are comprised of litigation and environmental contingencies, asset retirement obligations and other obligations for which neither the ultimate settlement amounts nor their timings can be precisely determined in advance. see note 8 , note 9 and note 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, the company's financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with changes in commodity prices, interest rate movements on outstanding debt and credit risks. these risks are mitigated through the company's risk management program, which includes the use of derivative instruments. the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2018 , and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. the company does not enter into any financial instruments, including derivatives, for speculative or trading purposes. interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2018 the company had no variable rate debt outstanding under its credit facility and therefore no related exposure to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2018 , the company had $2.3 billion of fixed rate long-term debt outstanding with an weighted average interest rate of 5.4 percent . although changes in interest rates may affect the fair value of the company's fixed rate long-term debt, any changes would not expose the company to the risk of earnings or cash flow losses. the company has no interest rate derivative instruments outstanding; however, it may enter into such instrument in the future to mitigate interest rate risk. see note 4 and note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 15 risk factors," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, ngls and gas within the united states, with operations in the permian basin in west texas. the company is a delaware corporation, and its common stock has been listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd" since its formation in 1997. the company's principal executive office is located at 777 hidden ridge, irving, texas, 75038. the company also maintains an office in midland, texas and field offices in its area of operation. at december 31, 2019, pioneer had 2,323 employees, 826 of whom were employed in field operations and 360 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the sec maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the company makes available free of charge through its website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases and investor presentations that are posted on its website or publicly during accessible investor conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to be america's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. the company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives: maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; delivering economic production and reserve growth through drilling, completion and production improvement activities; utilizing the company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency; returning free cash flow to investors through a combination of dividends and share repurchases; developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner; and stewarding the environment through industry leading sustainable development efforts. the company's long-term strategy is anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in the permian basin in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 50 years. business activities pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogeneous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. the company's portfolio of resources and opportunities are located in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field, and provide long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. petroleum industry. over the past several years, the oil price environment has been characterized by high volatility. during 2019, brent oil prices rose to a high of $74.57 per barrel in april 2019, up from a low of $54.91 per barrel in early january 2019. during 2020 to date, brent oil prices declined to a low of $49.45 in february 2020. significant factors that are likely to affect 2020 commodity prices include: the effect of u.s. energy, monetary, environmental and trade policies, including 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company policies related to u.s. and china trade negotiations and iranian oil sanctions; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government; the pace of economic growth in the u.s. and throughout the world; geopolitical issues globally, especially in the middle east; the extent to which organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") members and some nonmembers, including russia, adhere to and agree to extend their oil production quota's; uncertain demand fundamentals in 2020 and beyond, led by rising oil consumption in china and india offset by european union members reshaping their fossil fuel consumption towards lower carbon energy; overall north american and worldwide gas supply and demand fundamentals, including the timing of incremental lng export capacity additions; and global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the recent coronavirus, which may reduce demand for oil, ngl and gas because of reduced global or national economic activity. because the global economic and political outlook and commodity price environment are uncertain, the company endeavors to maintain a strong financial liquidity position to provide financial flexibility should commodity prices decline and remain low for an extended period of time. while the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase oil, ngl and gas takeaway capacity associated with growing u.s. shale production, such as the construction of additional oil and ngl export facilities and new liquefied natural gas ("lng") facilities, the supply of these products has increased at a faster pace than the overall u.s. and international demand for these commodities. oil, ngl products and gas supplies are expected to continue to increase during 2020 and prices are expected to remain volatile. to mitigate this risk, pioneer enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, ngl and gas transportation capacity from the company's area of production with the objective of transporting a significant portion of the company's oil and gas sales to higher priced markets. specifically, the company has entered into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the company's oil and gas sales to gulf coast refineries and lng facilities, international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. these marketing activities provided incremental cash flow of $283 million in 2019 and $458 million in 2018, compared to cash outlays of $31 million in 2017. the company also uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. the company has entered into derivative contracts for a portion of its forecasted 2020 production; consequently, if commodity prices decline, the company could realize lower prices for volumes not protected by the company's derivative activities and could see a reduction in derivative contract prices available on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices or to the extent that sales prices do not cover the third-party purchase price and cost of transportation for that portion of volumes transported to other markets. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. liquidity. the company's primary needs for cash are for (i) capital expenditures, (ii) acquisitions of oil and gas properties, (iii) payments of contractual obligations, including debt maturities, (iv) dividends and share repurchases and (v) working capital obligations. funding for these cash needs may be provided by any combination of the company's primary sources of liquidity including: (i) cash and cash equivalents, (ii) net cash provided by operating activities, (iii) sales of investments, (iv) unused borrowing capacity under its credit facility, (v) issuances of debt or equity securities and (vi) other sources, such as sales of nonstrategic assets. although the company expects that these sources of funding will be adequate to fund its 2020 capital expenditures, dividend payments and provide adequate liquidity to fund other needs, including stock repurchases, no assurance can be given that such funding sources will be adequate to meet the company's future needs. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing controllable costs associated with production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2019, the company's production of 126 mmboe, excluding field fuel usage, represented an eight percent increase compared to production during 2018. see "item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data" for additional information. drilling activities. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. development activities . the company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2019 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 39 mmbbls of oil, 16 mmbbls of ngl and 83 bcf of gas. the timing of the development of these proved reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. during the three years ended december 31, 2019, the company drilled 854 gross (745 net) exploration and development wells, with 98 percent of the gross wells (99 percent of net wells) being successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company's interest) of $9.2 billion, including infrastructure capital. 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exploratory activities. the company has a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested in the future. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire or trade for acreage that complements its operations, provides exploration and development opportunities, increases the lateral length of future horizontal wells and potentially provides superior returns on investment. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition and acreage trade opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiations of letters of intent or negotiations of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition or acreage trade is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company's control. during 2019, 2018 and 2017, the company spent $28 million, $65 million and $136 million, respectively, primarily to purchase undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities in the spraberry/wolfcamp field of the permian basin. see note 3 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. integrated services. the company continues to utilize its integrated services to control well costs and operating costs in addition to supporting the execution of its drilling and production activities. the company owns field service equipment that supports its drilling and production operations, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. the company continues to construct a field-wide water distribution system to reduce the cost of water for drilling and completion activities and to secure adequate supplies of water to support the company's long-term growth plan for the spraberry/wolfcamp field. during 2019, the company expanded its mainline system, subsystems and frac ponds to efficiently deliver water to pioneer's drilling locations. the company is purchasing approximately 120 thousand barrels per day of effluent water from the city of odessa and is partnering with the city of midland to upgrade the city's wastewater treatment plant in return for approximately two billion barrels of low-cost, non-potable water over a 28-year contract period (up to 240 thousand barrels per day) to support its drilling and completion activities. the midland wastewater treatment plant is scheduled for completion in early 2021. asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base to identify nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities, create organizational and operational efficiencies and further the company's objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility. see note 3 and note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. marketing of production general. production from the company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information. seasonal nature of business. generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. significant purchasers. during 2019 the company's oil, ngl and gas sales to sunoco logistics partners l.p., occidental energy marketing inc. and plains marketing l.p. accounted for 33 percent, 20 percent and 13 percent of the company's oil and gas revenues, respectively. the loss of one of these significant purchasers or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure for its permian basin production could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to produce and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. revenues from sales of purchased oil and gas to occidental energy marketing inc. accounted for 30 percent of the company's sales of purchased oil and gas. no other purchaser of oil or gas purchased by the company from third parties 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exceeded ten percent during 2019. the loss of this significant purchaser of purchased oil and gas would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell commodities it purchases from third parties. see note 13 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. derivative risk management activities. the company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts, collar contracts with short puts and basis swap contracts that are intended to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. from time to time, the company also utilizes interest rate derivative contracts intended to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the company's indebtedness. the company enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, ngl and gas transportation capacity from the company's areas of production. the company enters into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the company's oil and gas sales to gulf coast refineries and lng facilities, international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive in the exploration for and acquisition of reserves, the acquisition of oil and gas leases, marketing of oil, ngl and gas production, the obtaining of equipment and services and the hiring and retention of staff necessary for the identification, evaluation, operation and acquisition and development of oil and gas properties. the company's competitors include a large number of companies, including major integrated oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas companies, and individuals engaged in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties. the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind and solar power. competition will increase as alternative energy technology becomes more reliable and governments throughout the world support or mandate the use of such alternative energy. additionally, various entities throughout the world, including governments and public and private companies, are promoting research into new technologies to accelerate the implementation of alternative energy sources. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. the company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the company believes are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources" for additional information. markets. the company's ability to produce and market oil, ngl and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company's control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect commodity prices or the degree to which commodity prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production unless the company effectively enhances margins through marketing and derivative arrangements. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company many requirements, including the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the company's common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company environmental and occupational health and safety matters. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. numerous governmental entities, including the u.s. environmental protection agency (the "epa"), the u.s. occupational safety and health administration ("osha") and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, which may cause the company to incur significant capital expenditures or take costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance. failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory remedial or corrective action of obligations, the occurrence of delays or restrictions in permitting or the performance of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining the company from conducting certain operations in a particular area. while the company's environmental compliance costs have historically not had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future, or that new or more stringently applied laws and regulations will not materially increase the cost of doing business. the following is a summary of the more significant environmental and worker health and safety laws, as amended from time to time, to which the company's business operations are or may be subject and with which compliance or the failure to maintain compliance may have a material adverse effect on the company's capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. hazardous wastes and substances. the federal resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the authority delegated by the epa, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. the company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes that may be regulated as rcra hazardous wastes. rcra currently excludes from the definition of hazardous waste drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas. these wastes are instead regulated under rcra's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. there have been efforts from time to time to remove this exclusion. for example, in response to a federal consent decree issued in 2016, the epa was required during 2019 to determine whether certain subtitle d criteria regulations required revision in a manner that could result in oil and gas wastes being regulated as rcra hazardous wastes. in april 2019, the epa made a determination that such revision of the regulations was unnecessary. any future loss of the rcra exclusion could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position, and it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous waste in the future. the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ("cercla"), also known as the superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. these persons include: (i) the current owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, (ii) a past owner or operator of the site at the time of the disposal of the hazardous substance and (iii) anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. cercla also authorizes the epa and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company generates materials in the course of its operations that may be regulated as cercla hazardous substances. see "item 1a. risk factors - the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company" for additional information. water use, surface discharges and injections into underground formations. the federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act (the "cwa"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and hazardous substances, into waters of the united states and state waters. spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan requirements imposed under the cwa require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon spill, rupture or leak. additionally, the cwa and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of stormwater runoff from certain types of facilities. the cwa also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as require remedial or mitigation measures, for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws. the federal oil pollution act ("opa") sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills into waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, such as 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exploration and production facilities, may be held strictly liable for oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. opa amends the cwa and thus noncompliance with opa could result in civil and criminal penalties under the cwa. the company may dispose of produced water from oil and gas activities in underground injection wells, which are designed and permitted to place the water into non-productive geologic formations that are isolated from fresh water sources. the underground injection control ("uic") program established under the federal safe drinking water act ("sdwa") requires issuance of permits from the epa or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of these disposal wells. additionally, the uic program establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. because some states have become concerned that the disposal of produced water into underground formations could contribute to seismicity, they have adopted or are considering adopting additional regulations governing such disposal. should future bans relating to underground injection wells be placed in effect in the permian basin, where the company has significant operations, there could be an adverse impact on the company's ability to operate. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. restrictions on the company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows" for additional information. hydraulic fracturing . hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice to stimulate production of oil and gas from dense subsurface rock formations. the process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate oil and gas production. the company routinely conducts hydraulic fracturing in its drilling and completion programs. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but, in recent years, several federal, state and local agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. additionally, the threat of climate change has resulted in increasing political risks in the united states, including climate-related pledges to ban hydraulic fracturing of oil and gas wells being made by certain candidates seeking the office of president of the united sates in 2020. in the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays, curtailment or a cessation in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. see "item 1a. risk factors - laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions, delays or cancellations and have a material adverse effect on the company's production" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company's hydraulic fracturing and former sand mining operations may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company" for additional information. air emissions. the federal clean air act (the "caa") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. such laws and regulations could require a facility to obtain pre-approval for construction or modification projects expected to produce new air pollutant emissions or result in the increase of existing air pollutant emissions. additionally, these legal requirements could impose stringent air permit conditions or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" for additional information. climate change. climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. as a result, numerous regulatory initiatives have been proposed, and are likely to continue to be proposed, at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit existing sources of ghg emissions as well as to restrict or eliminate emissions from new sources. these regulatory efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, ghg reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. additionally, the threat of climate change has resulted in increasing political, litigation and financial risks associated with the production of fossil fuels and emission of ghgs. the adoption and implementation of any federal or state legislation, regulations or executive orders or the occurrence of any litigation or financial developments that impose more stringent requirements or bans on ghg-emitting production activities or locations where such production activities may occur, impose liabilities for past conduct relating to ghg-emitting production activities, or limit or eliminate sources of financing for on- 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company going production operations could require the company to incur increased costs, such as compliance or consumption costs, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, or otherwise impair the ability of the company to continue to operate in an economic manner. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to a number of risks arising out of concerns regarding the threat of climate change, including regulatory, political, litigation and financial risks, that could result in increased operating costs and costs of compliance, limit the areas in which oil and gas production may occur, reduce demand for the oil and gas the company produces, and expose the company to the risk of increased activism and decreased funding for the industry, while the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the company's production and cause it to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects" for additional information. endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the "esa") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the esa. some of the company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be delayed, restricted or prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. see "item 1a. risk factors - laws and regulations pertaining to protection of threatened and endangered species or to critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources could delay, restrict or prohibit the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on the company's development and production of reserves" for additional information. occupational health and safety. the company's operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act and comparable state statutes. these laws and the implementing regulations issued by osha strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osha hazard communication standard, the epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statutes require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations. osha published a final rule in 2016 that established a more stringent permissible exposure to respirable crystalline silica and provides other provisions to protect employees. this final rule required compliance with most applicable requirements by various industry sectors, including the hydraulic fracturing sector, by june 2018, and further requires compliance with engineering control obligations to limit exposures to respirable crystalline silica in connection with hydraulic fracturing activities by june 2021. respirable silica is a known health hazard for workers exposed over long periods. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company's hydraulic fracturing and former sand mining operations may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company" for additional information. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations that are binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding production rates. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations that the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells or limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ("ferc"). ferc endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ("epact 2005") it is unlawful for any entity, such as the company, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. the epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1 million per day, subject to annual inflation adjustment, for each violation of the natural gas act ("nga"), the natural gas policy act of 1978 and related regulations. under ferc order 704, which regulates annual gas transaction reporting requirements, any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to ferc on form no. 552 by may 1 of the year following the calendar year when such sales and purchases occurred. form no. 552 contains aggregate volumes of wholesale gas purchased or sold in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. the basis for intrastate gas pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate gas pipeline rates, vary from state to state. additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the u.s. congress, ferc, state legislatures, state regulatory bodies and the courts. the company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. the company believes that the regulation of intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly situated competitors. see additional information in "item 1a. risk factors - the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, ngl, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks." gas processing . the company's gas processing operations are generally not subject to ferc or state regulation with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's gas processing, gathering and treating operations are subject to operational and regulatory risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue" for additional information. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc jurisdiction. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by these changes. the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. see "item 1a. risk factors - the company's gas processing, gathering, and treating operations are subject to operational and regulatory risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue" and "item 1a. risk factors - the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" for additional information. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngl . intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates, terms and conditions are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local authorities and, in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines that are also subject to ferc jurisdiction under the interstate commerce act (the "ica"). the company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers. the ica requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with the ferc. the tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. the ica requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before the ferc. rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by the ferc, primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by the ferc. for the five-year period beginning in july 2016, the ferc established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.23 percent. this adjustment is subject to review every five years. under the ferc's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the company. in addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. therefore, new shippers or increased volumes by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the company. any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. however, the company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent, if not better given the company's firm transportation contracts, as to its similarly situated competitors. in november 2009, the federal trade commission (the "ftc") issued regulations pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1 million per violation per day, subject to annual inflation adjustment. the commodity futures trading commission (the "cftc") has also issued anti-manipulation rules that subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1 million per violation, subject to annual inflation adjustment, or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. see "items 1a. risk factors - the company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, ngl, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks." energy commodity prices . sales prices of oil, ngl and gas are not currently regulated and sales are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the u.s. congress historically has been active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the u.s. congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company's operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company's transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company's business activities. other risks are described in "item 1. business competition, markets and regulations," "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; worldwide oil, ngl and gas inventory levels, including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including the imposition of tariffs or trade or other economic sanctions, political instability or armed conflict in oil and gas producing regions; global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the recent coronavirus, which may reduce demand for oil, ngl and gas because of reduced global or national economic activity; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the price and quantity of oil, ngl and lng imports to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances or social attitudes or policies affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, climate change regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; stockholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of capital for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and gas; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other processing, fractionation, refinery, storage and export facilities; and the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels. commodity prices have historically been, and continue to be, extremely volatile. for example, the brent oil prices in 2019 ranged from a high of $74.57 to a low of $54.91 per bbl and the nymex gas prices in 2019 ranged from a high of $3.59 to a low of $2.07 per mmbtu.the company expects this volatility to continue. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or its ability to repurchase shares of common stock, pay dividends or finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital and transportation commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also materially and adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased production and ad valorem taxes. decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry have historically led to cost reductions for some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. however, such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the economies in the united states and certain countries in europe and asia have been growing, with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain south american nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. if these conditions worsen, combined with a decline in economic growth in other parts of the world, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. in addition, continued hostilities in the middle east and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the united states or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the recent coronavirus, may adversely affect the company by (i) reducing demand for its oil, ngl and gas because of reduced global or national economic activity, (ii) impairing its supply chain (for example, by limiting manufacturing of materials used in operations), and (iii) affecting the health of its workforce, rendering employees unable to work or travel. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish or stagnate, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas, affect the ability of the company's vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately decrease the company's cash flows and profitability. in addition, reduced worldwide demand for debt and equity securities issued by oil and gas companies may make it more difficult for it to raise capital. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. absent an expansion of u.s. refining and export capacity, rising u.s. production of oil could result in a surplus of these products in the u.s., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. although u.s. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated export capacity expansions, transportation and other costs. in such circumstances, the rate of return on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for exploration or development; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment, services and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to identify, evaluate, develop and operate its properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company, and as such, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage in the identification, acquisition and development of properties that complement the company's operations. the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. competition is expected to increase and in certain cases, 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company governments are providing tax advantages and other subsidies to support alternative energy sources or are mandating the use of specific fuels or technologies. governments and other parties are also promoting research into new technologies to accelerate the implementation of alternative energy sources. the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including drilling and completion activities and water distribution, collection and disposal activities, are subject to all the risks incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as ngl and gas leaks, oil and produced water spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm"), and unauthorized discharges of toxic chemicals, gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants onto the surface or into the subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or water; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; surface access restrictions; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cybersecurity breaches, and global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the recent coronavirus; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it increases internally-provided well services, water distribution, water collection, disposal or other services. in addition, any of these risks could adversely impact the company's service providers and suppliers, causing its supply chains to be interrupted, slowed, or rendered inoperable. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property and natural resources, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company may not be insured or is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could adversely affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in the permian basin of west texas, an area of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs; such concentration also makes the company vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited geographic area. the company's producing properties are geographically concentrated in the permian basin of west texas. industry activity is high in the permian basin and demand for and costs of personnel, equipment, power, services and resources remains high. any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services and resources could result in oil, ngl and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flow and profitability. as a result of this concentration, the company may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of operations or production in this area caused by external factors such as governmental regulation, state politics, market limitations, water or sand shortages or extreme weather related conditions. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production and other financial and operating results. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates and assumptions, including that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur. production forecasts, specifically, are based on assumptions such as: expectations of production from existing wells and future drilling activity; the absence of facility or equipment malfunctions; the absence of adverse weather effects; expectations of commodity prices, which could experience significant volatility; expected well costs; and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. should any of these assumptions prove inaccurate, or should the company's development plans change, actual production could be materially and adversely affected. exploration and development drilling involve substantial costs and risks and may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; construction delays; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; title defects; lack of available gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, storage, refining or export facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with or changes in environmental and other governmental, regulatory or contractual requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to recognize exploration and abandonment expense in 2020. part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company drilling in emerging areas is more uncertain than drilling in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established drilling operations. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas. multi-well pad drilling may result in volatility in the company's operating results. the company utilizes multi-well pad drilling, and wells drilled on a pad are not placed on production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed. in addition, problems affecting a single well could adversely affect production from all of the wells on the pad. as a result, multi-well pad drilling can cause delays in the scheduled commencement of production, or interruptions in ongoing production. these delays or interruptions may cause volatility in the company's operating results. further, any delay, reduction or curtailment of the company's development and producing operations due to operational delays caused by multi-well pad drilling could result in the loss of acreage through lease expiration. the company's use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and gas, which could materially and adversely affect the results of its drilling operations. even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. as a result, the company's drilling activities may not be successful or economic. in addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-d seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and the company could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2019 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 39 mmbbls of oil, 16 mmbbls of ngl and 83 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and cost of capital, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel, and drilling results. there can be no assurance that the company will drill these locations or that the company will be able to produce oil or gas reserves from these locations or any other potential drilling locations. well results vary by formation and geographic area, and the company generally prioritizes its drilling activities to focus on remaining locations that are believed to offer the highest return. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations, the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. restrictions on the company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. water is an essential component of the company's drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. limitations or restrictions on the company's ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought), could materially and adversely impact its operations. severe drought conditions can result in local water districts taking steps to restrict the use of water in their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply. if the company is unable to obtain water to use in its operations from local sources, it may need to be obtained from new sources and transported to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company must dispose of the fluids produced from oil and gas production operations, including produced water, which it does directly or through the use of third party vendors. the legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water into a non-producing geologic formation by means of underground injection wells are subject to change 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. one such concern arises from seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and gas activities. in 2016, the united states geological survey identified texas as being among the states with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. while the agency has seen these rates decrease since that time, concern continues to exist over earthquakes arising from induced seismic activities. in response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. for example, in texas, the texas railroad commission has adopted rules governing the permitting or re-permitting of wells used to dispose of produced water and other fluids resulting from the production of oil and gas in order to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. states may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. these developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by the company or by commercial disposal well vendors whom the company may use from time to time to dispose of produced water. increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to limit or prohibit oil and gas activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. any one or more of these developments may result in the company or its vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require the company or its vendors to shut down or curtail the injection of produced water into disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's gas processing, gathering and treating operations are subject to operational and regulatory risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2019, the company owns interests in 11 gas processing plants, including the related gathering systems. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants and the associated gathering systems. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of gas processing plants, gathering systems or treating facilities could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. moreover, while the company's gas processing and gathering systems generally are not currently subject to ferc or state regulation with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service, there can be no assurance that such processing and gathering operations will continue to be unregulated in the future. although these facilities may not be directly regulated, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for gathering and processing, such as state regulations regarding production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the company's business in these areas. such regulation could result in additional costs and reduced revenues. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell production from its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. additionally, certain of these challenges may be compounded by the high level of industry activity in the permian basin. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company for example, following hurricane harvey in 2017 and hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the inability of certain texas gulf coast ngl fractionators to operate. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitations in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, storage, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, or lack of capacity at such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with a ferc-related pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngl and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to satisfy their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions, delays or cancellations and have a material adverse effect on the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company conducts hydraulic fracturing in its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand or other proppants and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar agencies, but in recent years, several federal agencies have conducted investigations or asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, in 2016, the epa released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that "water cycle" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. additionally, the epa has asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the sdwa's uic program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and has issued guidance covering such activities. moreover, the epa has published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing under the toxic substances control act and has implemented a final rule under the cwa prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants. also, the federal bureau of land management ("blm") published a final rule in 2015 that established new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and indian lands. the blm rescinded the 2015 rule in late 2017; however, litigation challenging the blm's decision to rescind the 2015 rule remains pending in federal district court. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the additives used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition, certain states, including texas where the company operates, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. for example, in april 2019, colorado passed legislation reforming exploration and production activities by the oil and gas industry in the state including, among other things, revising the mission of the state oil and gas agency from fostering energy development in the state to instead focusing on regulating the industry in a manner that is protective of public health and safety and the environment, as well as authorizing cities and counties to regulate oil and gas operations within their jurisdictions as they do other development. while the company does not conduct operations in colorado, passage or enactment of similar legislation in other states in which it does operate could significantly increase the company's operating costs and have a 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company significant adverse effect on the company's ability to conduct operations. states could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing or high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the states of vermont, maryland and new york. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may be adopted to restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. in texas, legislation was adopted providing that the regulation of oil and gas operations in texas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and thus preempts local regulation of those operations. nonetheless, municipalities and political subdivisions in texas continue to have the right to enact "commercially reasonable" regulations for surface activities. also, the threat of climate change has resulted in increasing political risks in the united states, including climate-related pledges to ban hydraulic fracturing of oil and gas wells being made by certain candidates seeking the office of president of the united states in 2020. additionally, senator bernie sanders (d-vt), who is one of the presidential candidates that has pledged to ban hydraulic fracturing, introduced senate bill 3247 on january 28, 2020 that, if enacted as proposed, would ban hydraulic fracturing nationwide by 2025. in the event federal, state or local restrictions or bans pertaining to hydraulic fracturing are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements, experience restrictions, delays or cancellations in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves; one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the drilling of wells, rates of production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, ngl and gas, and the discharging of materials into the environment and environmental protection. for example, state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws (i) establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, (ii) generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and (iii) impose requirements regarding production rates. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations that the company can drill. in connection with its operations, the company must obtain and maintain numerous environmental and oil and gas-related permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. the need to obtain permits has the potential to delay, curtail or cease the development of oil and gas projects. the company may in the future be charged royalties on gas emissions or required to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions-related issues. for example, in 2015, the epa issued a final rule under the caa lowering the national ambient air quality standard ("naaqs") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion under standards to provide protection of public health and welfare. in subsequent years, the epa has issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone and final requirements that apply to state, local and tribal air agencies for implementing the 2015 naaqs for ground-level ozone. state implementation of the revised naaqs could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, resulting in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase the company's capital expenditures and operating costs. in another example, the epa and u.s. army corps of engineers (the "corps") released a final rule in 2015 outlining federal jurisdictional reach under the cwa over waters of the u.s., including wetlands. in 2017, the epa and the corps agreed to reconsider the 2015 rule and, thereafter, on october 22, 2019, the agencies published a final rule, which became effective on december 31, 2019, rescinding the 2015 rule. on january 23, 2020, the two agencies issued a final rule re-defining the clean water act's jurisdiction over waters of the united states, which redefinition is narrower than found in the 2015 rule. upon being published in the federal register and the passage of 60 days thereafter, the january 23, 2020 final rule will become effective, at which point the united states will be covered under a single regulatory scheme as it relates to federal jurisdictional reach over waters of the united states. however, there remains the expectation that the january 23, 2020 final rule also will be legally challenged in federal district court. to the extent that any challenge to the january 23, 2020 final rule is successful and the 2015 rule or a revised rule expands the scope of the clean water act's jurisdiction in areas where the company conducts operations, the company could incur (i) delays, restrictions or prohibitions in the issuance of necessary permits, (ii) restrictions or cessations in the development or expansion of projects, or (iii) increases in the company's capital expenditures and operating expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company additionally, the company's operations are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal osha and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of employees. among other things, the osha hazard communication standard, the epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of the federal superfund amendment and reauthorization act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. there can be no assurance that existing or future regulations will not result in a delay, curtailment or cessation of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or materially and adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups or corrective actions, delays in permitting or performance of projects, natural resource damages and other liabilities. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. in addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement in the future with more stringent legal requirements. further, any delay, reduction or curtailment of the company's development and producing operations due to these laws and regulations could result in the loss of acreage through lease expiration. the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company. the company's assets and production operations may give rise to significant environmental costs and liabilities as a result of the company's handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. the company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, treatment, storage, transport and disposal of wastes, hazardous substances and petroleum hydrocarbons and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil and produced water spills, ngl and gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of such wastes, substances and hydrocarbons, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. for example, drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the company's exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently excluded under rcra from the definition of hazardous waste. these wastes are instead regulated under rcra's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. there have been efforts from time to time to remove this exclusion. for example, in response to a federal consent decree issued in 2016, the epa was required during 2019 to determine whether certain subtitle d criteria regulations required revision in a manner that could result in oil and gas wastes being regulated as rcra hazardous waste. in april 2019, the epa made a determination that such revision of the regulations was unnecessary. any future loss of the rcra exclusion could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. the company currently owns, leases or operates, and in the past has owned, leased or operated, properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. these wastes, substances and hydrocarbons may also be released during future operations. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by predecessors or previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or damage to property or natural resources. such properties and the substances disposed or released on or under them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws, which could require the company to remove previously disposed substances, wastes and petroleum hydrocarbons, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not insurable or fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's operations are subject to a number of risks arising out of concerns regarding the threat of climate change, including regulatory, political, litigation and financial risks, that could result in increased operating costs and costs of compliance, limit the areas in which oil and gas production may occur, reduce demand for the oil and gas the company produces, and expose the company to the risk of increased activism and decreased funding for the industry, while the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the company's production and cause it to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. the threat of climate change continues to attract considerable attention in the united states and in foreign countries. numerous initiatives have been proposed and are expected to continue to be proposed at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit existing sources of ghg emissions as well as to restrict or eliminate emissions from new sources. as a result, the company's operations are subject to a series of regulatory, political, litigation and financial risks associated with the production and processing of fossil fuels and emission of ghgs. in the united states, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented at the federal level. however, following the u.s. supreme court finding that ghg emissions constitute a pollutant under the caa, the epa has adopted regulations that, among other things, (i) establish construction and operating permit reviews for ghg emissions from certain large stationary sources, (ii) require the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions from certain petroleum and gas system sources in the united states, (iii) implement caa emission standards directing the reduction of methane from certain new, modified, or reconstructed facilities in the oil and gas sector, and (iv) together with the dot, implement ghg emissions limits on vehicles manufactured for operation in the united states. additionally, various states, groups of states, and other countries have adopted or are considering adopting legislation, regulations or other regulatory initiatives that are focused on such areas as ghg cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, reporting and tracking programs, and restriction of emissions. at the international level, there is a non-binding agreement, the united nations sponsored "paris agreement," for nations to limit their ghg emissions through individually-determined reduction goals every five years after 2020, although the united states has announced its withdrawal from such agreement, effective november 4, 2020. governmental, scientific, and public concern over the threat of climate change arising from ghg emissions has resulted in increasing political risks in the united states, including climate change related pledges made by certain candidates seeking the office of the president of the united states in 2020. critical declarations made by one or more candidates running for president include proposals to ban hydraulic fracturing of oil and gas wells and ban new leases for production of minerals on federal properties, including onshore lands and offshore waters. other actions that could be pursued by presidential candidates may include more restrictive requirements for the establishment of pipeline infrastructure or the permitting of lng export facilities, the reversal of the united states' withdrawal from the paris agreement in november 2020 and reinstatement of the ban on oil exports. litigation risks are also increasing, as a number of cities, local governments or other persons have sought to bring suit against oil and gas exploration and production companies in state or federal court, alleging, among other things, that such companies created public nuisances by producing fuels that contributed to global warming effects, such as rising sea levels, and therefore are responsible for roadway and infrastructure damages, or alleging that the companies have been aware of the adverse effects of climate change for some time but defrauded their investors by failing to adequately disclose those impacts. there are also financial risks for fossil fuel producers as stockholders or bondholders currently invested in fossil-fuel energy companies concerned about the threat of climate change may elect in the future to shift some or all of their investments into non-fossil fuel energy related sectors. institutional lenders who provide financing to fossil-fuel energy companies also have become more attentive to sustainable lending practices and some of them may elect not to provide funding for fossil fuel energy companies. additionally, investing and lending practices of various investment firms and institutional lenders have been the subject of intensive lobbying efforts in recent years, oftentimes public in nature, by environmental activists, proponents of the paris agreement, and foreign citizenry concerned about the threat of climate change not to provide funding for fossil fuel producers. for example, there have been efforts in recent years to influence the investment community, including investment advisors and certain sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds, to divest of fossil fuel equities and lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. limitation of investments in and financings for fossil fuel energy companies could result in the restriction, delay or cancellation of drilling programs or development or production activities. the adoption and implementation of new or more stringent international, federal or state regulations or other regulatory initiatives that impose more stringent standards for ghg emissions from the oil and gas sector or otherwise restrict the areas in which this sector may produce oil and gas or generate ghg emissions could result in increased compliance and consumption costs, and thereby reduce demand for the oil and gas the company produces. additionally, political, litigation and financial risks could result in the restriction or cancellation of production activities, incurring liability for infrastructure damages as a result of climate changes, or impairing the company's ability to continue to operate in an economic manner. finally, if increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere were to result in significant physical effects, such as increased 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other extreme climatic events, then such effects could have a material adverse effect on the company's exploration and production operations. in addition, companies in the oil and gas industry have been the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations, including instituting litigation and supporting political or regulatory efforts to, among other things, limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, restrict or ban certain operating practices, including the disposal of waste materials, such as hydraulic fracturing fluids and produced water, deny or delay drilling permits, prohibit the venting or flaring of gas, reduce access of the oil and gas industry to federal and state government lands, and delay or cancel oil and gas developmental or expansion projects. the company may need to incur significant costs associated with responding to these initiatives, and complying with any resulting additional legal or regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. laws and regulations pertaining to protection of threatened and endangered species or to critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources could delay, restrict or prohibit the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on the company's development and production of reserves. the federal esa and comparable state laws were established to protect endangered and threatened species. under the esa, if a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species' habitat. similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the federal migratory bird treaty act. oil and gas operations in the company's operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions imposed on drilling activities by the u.s. fish and wildlife services (the "fws") that are designed to protect various wildlife, which may materially restrict the company's access to federal or private land use. permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered and threatened species could prohibit drilling in certain areas, impact suppliers of critical materials or services, or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. additionally, federal statutes, including the cwa, the opa and cercla, as well as comparable state laws, prohibit certain actions that adversely affect critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, the fws may make determinations with respect to the listing of species as endangered or threatened under the esa, which may result in more fulsome protections for non-protected or lesser-protected species. the designation of previously unprotected species or the re-designation of under protected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays, restrictions or prohibitions on its development and production activities that could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. significant or extended price declines could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to the carrying value of its proved oil and gas properties. the company performs assessments of its oil and gas properties whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. in order to perform these assessments, management uses various observable and unobservable inputs, including management's outlooks for (i) proved reserves and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, (ii) commodity prices, (iii) production costs, (iv) capital expenditures and (v) production. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2018 and 2017, the company recorded impairment charges of $77 million and $285 million, respectively, attributable to its raton basin field in southeast colorado, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to the asset. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" for additional information. a portion of the company's total estimated proved reserves at december 31, 2019 were undeveloped, and those proved reserves may not ultimately be developed. at december 31, 2019, approximately five percent of the company's total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. recovery of undeveloped proved reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. the company's 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company reserve data assumes that the company can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which assumptions may not prove to be correct. if the company chooses not to spend the capital to develop these proved undeveloped reserves, or if the company is not otherwise able to successfully develop these proved undeveloped reserves, the company will be required to write-off these proved reserves. in addition, under the sec's rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells planned to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, the company may be required to write-off any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this five-year timeframe. as with all oil and gas leases, the company's leases require the company to drill wells that are commercially productive and to maintain the production in paying quantities, and if the company is unsuccessful in drilling such wells and maintaining such production, the company could lose its rights under such leases. the company's future production levels and, therefore, its future cash flow and profitability will be impacted if it does not successfully developing its proved undeveloped leasehold acreage. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future development costs, operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, gathering, processing, transportation and fractionation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely differ from the estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; the level of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngl and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a historical 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for future oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company's proved reserves. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties to determine recoverability of its cost and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2019, the company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $584 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases and the contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions. producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates, which vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. because the company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time as those reserves are produced, the company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions of additional recoverable reserves. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace its current or future production. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could materially and adversely affect its business. acquisitions of oil and gas properties, including acreage trades, have from time to time contributed to the company's growth. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including, among other things: the inability to accurately forecast future commodity prices and estimate the costs to develop the acquired reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the acquired reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the effect on the company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company's growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. from time to time, the company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. in addition, the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain pre-closing matters, such as matters of litigation, environmental contingencies, royalty obligations and income taxes. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a divestiture, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, ngls and gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. the ferc, the ftc and the cftc hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company's business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company's transportation of gas in interstate commerce, physical sales and purchases of oil, ngl, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could result in agency actions that could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses, limit the company's potential gains or fail to protect the company from declines in commodity prices; the company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive. the company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. these derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. while intended to reduce the effects of oil, ngl and gas price volatility, the company's derivative arrangements may limit the company's potential gains if prices rise over the price established by such arrangements. conversely, the company's derivative arrangements may be inadequate to protect the company from continuing and prolonged declines in the price of oil, ngl or gas. global commodity prices are volatile. such volatility challenges the company's ability to forecast the price of oil, ngl and gas, and, as a result, it may become more difficult for the company to manage its derivative arrangements. in trying to manage its exposure to commodity price risk, the company may end up with too many or too few derivatives, depending upon where commodity prices settle relative to the company's derivative price thresholds and how the company's oil, ngl and gas volumes and production mix fluctuate relative to expectations when the derivatives were entered. the company's derivative arrangements may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative contract and actual prices received; or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil and/or gas prices. failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. this could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the company's production volumes forecasted for 2020 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. in addition, the company's derivatives arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. the failure by counterparties to the company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. the company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. even if the company accurately predicts sudden changes, the company's ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. during periods of declining commodity prices, the company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the company's counterparty credit exposure. if any of the company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, could result in a larger percentage of the 28 table of contents pioneer natural resources company company's future production being subject to commodity price changes and could increase the likelihood that the company's derivative arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes. the enactment of derivatives legislation could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the "dodd-frank act") enacted in july 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations for its implementation. while many dodd-frank act regulations are already in effect, the rulemaking and implementation process is ongoing, and the ultimate effect of the adopted rules and regulations and any future rules and regulations on the company's business remain uncertain. in one of the rulemaking proceedings still pending under the dodd-frank act, the cftc issued in december 2016, proposed rules imposing position limits for certain futures and options contracts in various commodities (including oil and gas) and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. under the proposed rules on position limits, certain types of derivative transactions are exempt from these limits, provided that such derivative transactions satisfy the cftc's requirements for certain enumerated "bona fide" derivative transactions. the cftc has also adopted final rules regarding aggregation of positions, under which a party that controls the trading of, or owns ten percent or more of the equity interests in, another party will have to aggregate the positions of the controlled or owned party with its own positions for purposes of determining compliance with position limits unless an exemption applies. the cftc's aggregation rules are now in effect, although cftc staff has granted relief until august 12, 2022 from various conditions and requirements in the final aggregation rules. these rules may affect both the size of the positions that the company may hold and the ability or willingness of counterparties to trade with the company, potentially increasing the costs of transactions. moreover, such changes could materially reduce the company's access to derivative opportunities, which could adversely affect revenues or cash flow during periods of low commodity prices. as the new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the company is uncertain at this time. the cftc has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or to take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. although the company believes it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, the company may be required to clear such transactions. the ultimate effect of these rules and any additional regulations on the company's business is uncertain. in addition, certain banking regulators and the cftc have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. although the company expects to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps entered into to manage its commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the company uses. if any of the company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, the posting of collateral could reduce its liquidity and cash available for capital expenditures and could reduce its ability to manage commodity price volatility and the volatility in its cash flows. the full impact of the dodd-frank act and related regulatory requirements upon the company's business will not be known until the regulations are fully implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters and reduce the company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. further, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company's revenues could therefore be materially and adversely affected if a consequence of the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. the european union and other non-u.s. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. to the extent the company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions or counterparties with other businesses that subject them to regulations in foreign jurisdictions, the company may become subject to, or otherwise affected by, such regulations. at this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear. regulation by the cftc and banking regulators of the over-the-counter derivatives market and market participants could cause the company's contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail 29 table of contents pioneer natural resources company or cease their derivatives activities. the company believes that these regulatory trends have contributed to a reduction in liquidity of the over-the-counter derivatives market, which could make it more difficult to engage in derivative transactions covering significant volumes of the company's future production, and which could materially and adversely affect the cost and availability of derivatives to the company. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of such regulation, the company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could materially and adversely affect the company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. the company is a party to debt instruments, a credit facility and other financial commitments that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and maintains a credit facility that was undrawn as of december 31, 2019. the terms of the company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. in addition, from time to time, the company enters into arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations, including firm purchase, transportation and fractionation commitments, gathering, processing and transportation commitments on uncertain volumes of future throughput, commitments to purchase minimum volumes of goods and services, operating lease agreements and drilling commitments. the company's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business including, but not limited to, the following: the incurrence of charges associated with unused commitments if actual activities do not meet the company's expectations at the time such commitments are entered into; increasing its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and industry; limiting its ability to fund future development activities or engage in future acquisitions; and placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. the company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. a ratings downgrade could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to access debt markets, increase the borrowing cost under the company's credit facility and the cost of future debt and potentially require the company to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations. the company's ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase shares is subject to certain considerations. dividends are authorized and determined by the company's board of directors in its sole discretion. the company's stock repurchase program has no time limit, may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time by the board of directors, and the repurchase of shares pursuant to the stock repurchase program approved by the board of directors are made from time to time based on management's discretion. decisions regarding the payment of dividends and the repurchase of shares are subject to a number of considerations, including: cash available for distribution or repurchases; the company's results of operations and anticipated future results of operations; the company's financial condition, especially in relation to the anticipated future capital needs; the level of cash reserves the company may establish to fund future capital expenditures; the company's stock price; and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. the company can provide no assurance that it will continue to pay dividends or authorize share repurchases at the current rate or at all. any elimination of or downward revision in the company's dividend payout or stock repurchase program could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the company's common stock. the company's business could be materially and adversely affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to, or control of, sensitive information or to render data or systems corrupted or unusable; threats to the security of the company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. in particular, the company's 30 table of contents pioneer natural resources company implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. costs for insurance may also increase as a result of security threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated. the company relies extensively on information technology systems, including internet sites, computer software, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting its business. the company's technologies systems and networks, and those of its business associates may become the target of cybersecurity attacks, including without limitation denial-of-service attacks, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees, insiders or others with authorized access, cyber or phishing-attacks, ransomware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems and materially and adversely affect the company in a variety of ways, including the following: unauthorized access to and release of seismic data, reserves information, strategic information or other sensitive or proprietary information, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to compete for oil and gas resources; data corruption, communication interruption or other operational disruptions during drilling activities, which could result in the failure to reach the intended target or a drilling incident; data corruption or operational disruptions of production infrastructure, which could result in loss of production or accidental discharges; unauthorized access to and release of personal information of royalty owners, employees and vendors, or the data or confidential information of customers, suppliers or other third parties, which could expose the company to allegations that it did not sufficiently protect that information; a cybersecurity attack on a vendor or service provider, which could result in supply chain disruptions and could delay or halt operations; a cybersecurity attack on third-party gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, which could delay or prevent the company from transporting and marketing its production, resulting in a loss of revenues; a cybersecurity attack involving commodities exchanges or financial institutions, which could slow or halt commodities trading, thus preventing the company from marketing its production or engaging in derivative activities, resulting in a loss of revenues; a cybersecurity attack on a communications network or power grid, which could cause operational disruptions resulting in the loss of revenues; and a cybersecurity attack on the company's automated and surveillance systems, which could cause a loss in production and potential environmental hazards. these events could damage the company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. additionally, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period of time. while the company has experienced cybersecurity attacks in the past, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, inadvertent data privacy breaches by employees and phishing-attacks, the company has not suffered any material losses as a result of such attacks. however, there is no assurance that the company will not suffer such losses in the future. as cyber threats continue to evolve, the company may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. additionally, the continuing and evolving threat of cybersecurity attacks has resulted in evolving legal and compliance matters, including increased regulatory focus on prevention, which could require the company to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. provisions of the company's charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. provisions in the company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company's board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could 31 table of contents pioneer natural resources company discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company's common stock. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2019, the company had a carrying value for goodwill of $261 million. goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (i) positive or negative reserve adjustments, (ii) results of drilling activities, (iii) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (iv) changes in the company's market capitalization, (v) changes in the company's weighted average cost of capital and (vi) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company's hydraulic fracturing and former sand mining operations may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the company. the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. there is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. these health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. the actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits, recently adopted osha silica regulations and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. pioneer sands llc ("pioneer sands"), the company's wholly-owned subsidiary that conducted sand mining operations, is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of pioneer sands or its commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. as of december 31, 2019, pioneer sands was the subject of silica exposure claims from two plaintiffs. almost all of the claims pending against pioneer sands arise out of the alleged use of pioneer sands' sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of texas and georgia, although some cases have been brought in other jurisdictions over the years. it is possible that pioneer sands will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. in addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the company's other operations, including its hydraulic fracturing operations. any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, ngls and gas within the united states, with operations in the permian basin in west texas. the company is a delaware corporation, and its common stock has been listed and traded on the nyse under the ticker symbol "pxd" since its formation in 1997. the company's principal executive office is located at 777 hidden ridge, irving, texas, 75038. the company also maintains an office in midland, texas and field offices in its area of operation. at december 31, 2019, pioneer had 2,323 employees, 826 of whom were employed in field operations and 360 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the "exchange act"). the sec maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the company makes available free of charge through its website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. in addition to the reports filed or furnished with the sec, pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases and investor presentations that are posted on its website or publicly during accessible investor conferences. such information, including information posted on or connected to the company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this report or any other document the company files with or furnishes to the sec. mission and strategies the company's mission is to be america's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. the company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives: maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; delivering economic production and reserve growth through drilling, completion and production improvement activities; utilizing the company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency; returning free cash flow to investors through a combination of dividends and share repurchases; developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner; and stewarding the environment through industry leading sustainable development efforts. the company's long-term strategy is anchored by the company's interests in the long-lived spraberry/wolfcamp oil field located in the permian basin in west texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 50 years. business activities pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogeneous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company's competitors. the company's portfolio of resources and opportunities are located in the spraberry/wolfcamp oil field, and provide long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. petroleum industry. over the past several years, the oil price environment has been characterized by high volatility. during 2019, brent oil prices rose to a high of $74.57 per barrel in april 2019, up from a low of $54.91 per barrel in early january 2019. during 2020 to date, brent oil prices declined to a low of $49.45 in february 2020. significant factors that are likely to affect 2020 commodity prices include: the effect of u.s. energy, monetary, environmental and trade policies, including 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company policies related to u.s. and china trade negotiations and iranian oil sanctions; fiscal challenges facing the united states federal government; the pace of economic growth in the u.s. and throughout the world; geopolitical issues globally, especially in the middle east; the extent to which organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") members and some nonmembers, including russia, adhere to and agree to extend their oil production quota's; uncertain demand fundamentals in 2020 and beyond, led by rising oil consumption in china and india offset by european union members reshaping their fossil fuel consumption towards lower carbon energy; overall north american and worldwide gas supply and demand fundamentals, including the timing of incremental lng export capacity additions; and global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the recent coronavirus, which may reduce demand for oil, ngl and gas because of reduced global or national economic activity. because the global economic and political outlook and commodity price environment are uncertain, the company endeavors to maintain a strong financial liquidity position to provide financial flexibility should commodity prices decline and remain low for an extended period of time. while the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase oil, ngl and gas takeaway capacity associated with growing u.s. shale production, such as the construction of additional oil and ngl export facilities and new liquefied natural gas ("lng") facilities, the supply of these products has increased at a faster pace than the overall u.s. and international demand for these commodities. oil, ngl products and gas supplies are expected to continue to increase during 2020 and prices are expected to remain volatile. to mitigate this risk, pioneer enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, ngl and gas transportation capacity from the company's area of production with the objective of transporting a significant portion of the company's oil and gas sales to higher priced markets. specifically, the company has entered into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the company's oil and gas sales to gulf coast refineries and lng facilities, international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. these marketing activities provided incremental cash flow of $283 million in 2019 and $458 million in 2018, compared to cash outlays of $31 million in 2017. the company also uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. the company has entered into derivative contracts for a portion of its forecasted 2020 production; consequently, if commodity prices decline, the company could realize lower prices for volumes not protected by the company's derivative activities and could see a reduction in derivative contract prices available on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices or to the extent that sales prices do not cover the third-party purchase price and cost of transportation for that portion of volumes transported to other markets. see "item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information. seasonal nature of business. generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. significant purchasers. during 2019 the company's oil, ngl and gas sales to sunoco logistics partners l.p., occidental energy marketing inc. and plains marketing l.p. accounted for 33 percent, 20 percent and 13 percent of the company's oil and gas revenues, respectively. the loss of one of these significant purchasers or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and ngl fractionation infrastructure for its permian basin production could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to produce and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. revenues from sales of purchased oil and gas to occidental energy marketing inc. accounted for 30 percent of the company's sales of purchased oil and gas. no other purchaser of oil or gas purchased by the company from third parties 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exceeded ten percent during 2019. the loss of this significant purchaser of purchased oil and gas would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell commodities it purchases from third parties. see note 13 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company's common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company's control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; worldwide oil, ngl and gas inventory levels, including at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark location for wti oil prices, and the u.s. gulf coast, where the majority of the u.s. refinery capacity exists; volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets; the capacity of u.s. and international refiners to utilize u.s. supplies of oil and condensate; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions, including the imposition of tariffs or trade or other economic sanctions, political instability or armed conflict in oil and gas producing regions; global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the recent coronavirus, which may reduce demand for oil, ngl and gas because of reduced global or national economic activity; actions of opec, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the price and quantity of oil, ngl and lng imports to and exports from the u.s.; technological advances or social attitudes or policies affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, climate change regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; stockholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of capital for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and gas; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other processing, fractionation, refinery, storage and export facilities; and the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels. commodity prices have historically been, and continue to be, extremely volatile. for example, the brent oil prices in 2019 ranged from a high of $74.57 to a low of $54.91 per bbl and the nymex gas prices in 2019 ranged from a high of $3.59 to a low of $2.07 per mmbtu.the company expects this volatility to continue. a further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or its ability to repurchase shares of common stock, pay dividends or finance planned capital expenditures. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital and transportation commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also materially and adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically, which may result in the company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. a reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased production and ad valorem taxes. decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry have historically led to cost reductions for some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. however, such costs may rise faster than increases in the company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. this impact may be magnified to the extent that the company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. the economies in the united states and certain countries in europe and asia have been growing, with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain south american nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. if these conditions worsen, combined with a decline in economic growth in other parts of the world, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. in addition, continued hostilities in the middle east and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the united states or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the recent coronavirus, may adversely affect the company by (i) reducing demand for its oil, ngl and gas because of reduced global or national economic activity, (ii) impairing its supply chain (for example, by limiting manufacturing of materials used in operations), and (iii) affecting the health of its workforce, rendering employees unable to work or travel. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish or stagnate, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas, affect the ability of the company's vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately decrease the company's cash flows and profitability. in addition, reduced worldwide demand for debt and equity securities issued by oil and gas companies may make it more difficult for it to raise capital. the refining industry may be unable to absorb rising u.s. oil production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. absent an expansion of u.s. refining and export capacity, rising u.s. production of oil could result in a surplus of these products in the u.s., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. although u.s. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated export capacity expansions, transportation and other costs. in such circumstances, the rate of return on the company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the company's products could require that the company shut in some portion of its production. if this were to occur, the company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's cash flow and profitability. the company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the company's available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for exploration or development; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment, services and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to identify, evaluate, develop and operate its properties. some of the company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company, and as such, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage in the identification, acquisition and development of properties that complement the company's operations. the company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. competition is expected to increase and in certain cases, 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company governments are providing tax advantages and other subsidies to support alternative energy sources or are mandating the use of specific fuels or technologies. governments and other parties are also promoting research into new technologies to accelerate the implementation of alternative energy sources. the company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the company's operations and substantial losses to the company for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company's operations, including drilling and completion activities and water distribution, collection and disposal activities, are subject to all the risks incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as ngl and gas leaks, oil and produced water spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials ("norm"), and unauthorized discharges of toxic chemicals, gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants onto the surface or into the subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or water; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; surface access restrictions; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cybersecurity breaches, and global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the recent coronavirus; and natural disasters. the company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it increases internally-provided well services, water distribution, water collection, disposal or other services. in addition, any of these risks could adversely impact the company's service providers and suppliers, causing its supply chains to be interrupted, slowed, or rendered inoperable. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property and natural resources, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company may not be insured or is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could adversely affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in the permian basin of west texas, an area of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs; such concentration also makes the company vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited geographic area. the company's producing properties are geographically concentrated in the permian basin of west texas. industry activity is high in the permian basin and demand for and costs of personnel, equipment, power, services and resources remains high. any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services and resources could result in oil, ngl and gas production volumes being below the company's forecasted volumes. in addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flow and profitability. as a result of this concentration, the company may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of operations or production in this area caused by external factors such as governmental regulation, state politics, market limitations, water or sand shortages or extreme weather related conditions. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production and other financial and operating results. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates and assumptions, including that none of the risks associated with the company's oil and gas operations summarized in this "item 1a. risk factors" occur. production forecasts, specifically, are based on assumptions such as: expectations of production from existing wells and future drilling activity; the absence of facility or equipment malfunctions; the absence of adverse weather effects; expectations of commodity prices, which could experience significant volatility; expected well costs; and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. should any of these assumptions prove inaccurate, or should the company's development plans change, actual production could be materially and adversely affected. exploration and development drilling involve substantial costs and risks and may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; construction delays; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; title defects; lack of available gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, storage, refining or export facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with or changes in environmental and other governmental, regulatory or contractual requirements. the company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the company's future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to recognize exploration and abandonment expense in 2020. part of the company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. the company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. risks that the company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following: landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone; staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. risks that the company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following: the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company drilling in emerging areas is more uncertain than drilling in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established drilling operations. new discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. if the company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the company may recognize noncash charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas. multi-well pad drilling may result in volatility in the company's operating results. the company utilizes multi-well pad drilling, and wells drilled on a pad are not placed on production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed. in addition, problems affecting a single well could adversely affect production from all of the wells on the pad. as a result, multi-well pad drilling can cause delays in the scheduled commencement of production, or interruptions in ongoing production. these delays or interruptions may cause volatility in the company's operating results. further, any delay, reduction or curtailment of the company's development and producing operations due to operational delays caused by multi-well pad drilling could result in the loss of acreage through lease expiration. the company's use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and gas, which could materially and adversely affect the results of its drilling operations. even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. as a result, the company's drilling activities may not be successful or economic. in addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-d seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and the company could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. the company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company's future drilling plans. for example, the company's proved reserves as of december 31, 2019 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 39 mmbbls of oil, 16 mmbbls of ngl and 83 bcf of gas. the company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and cost of capital, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel, and drilling results. there can be no assurance that the company will drill these locations or that the company will be able to produce oil or gas reserves from these locations or any other potential drilling locations. well results vary by formation and geographic area, and the company generally prioritizes its drilling activities to focus on remaining locations that are believed to offer the highest return. changes in the laws or regulations on which the company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to successfully complete those programs. for example, under current texas laws and regulations, the company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could materially and adversely impact the company's ability to drill those wells. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company's expectations for success. as such, the company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the company's current expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. restrictions on the company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. water is an essential component of the company's drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. limitations or restrictions on the company's ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought), could materially and adversely impact its operations. severe drought conditions can result in local water districts taking steps to restrict the use of water in their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply. if the company is unable to obtain water to use in its operations from local sources, it may need to be obtained from new sources and transported to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company must dispose of the fluids produced from oil and gas production operations, including produced water, which it does directly or through the use of third party vendors. the legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water into a non-producing geologic formation by means of underground injection wells are subject to change 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. one such concern arises from seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and gas activities. in 2016, the united states geological survey identified texas as being among the states with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. while the agency has seen these rates decrease since that time, concern continues to exist over earthquakes arising from induced seismic activities. in response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. for example, in texas, the texas railroad commission has adopted rules governing the permitting or re-permitting of wells used to dispose of produced water and other fluids resulting from the production of oil and gas in order to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. states may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. these developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by the company or by commercial disposal well vendors whom the company may use from time to time to dispose of produced water. increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to limit or prohibit oil and gas activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. any one or more of these developments may result in the company or its vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require the company or its vendors to shut down or curtail the injection of produced water into disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's gas processing, gathering and treating operations are subject to operational and regulatory risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2019, the company owns interests in 11 gas processing plants, including the related gathering systems. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants and the associated gathering systems. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of gas processing plants, gathering systems or treating facilities could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. moreover, while the company's gas processing and gathering systems generally are not currently subject to ferc or state regulation with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service, there can be no assurance that such processing and gathering operations will continue to be unregulated in the future. although these facilities may not be directly regulated, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of gas for gathering and processing, such as state regulations regarding production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, which could impact the company's business in these areas. such regulation could result in additional costs and reduced revenues. the company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production; the company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the company or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the company's production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company's plans to develop and sell production from its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. additionally, certain of these challenges may be compounded by the high level of industry activity in the permian basin. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company for example, following hurricane harvey in 2017 and hurricanes gustav and ike in 2008, certain permian basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the inability of certain texas gulf coast ngl fractionators to operate. the company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. the amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitations in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, storage, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, or lack of capacity at such facilities. the company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. the curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. to the extent that the company enters into transportation contracts with pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, the company is subject to ferc requirements related to use of such capacity. any failure on the company's part to comply with ferc's regulations and policies or with a ferc-related pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. a limited number of companies purchase a majority of the company's oil, ngl and gas. the loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to sell its production. a failure by purchasers of the company's production to satisfy their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operation. the company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. to the extent that purchasers of the company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company's production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions, delays or cancellations and have a material adverse effect on the company's production. hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company conducts hydraulic fracturing in its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand or other proppants and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar agencies, but in recent years, several federal agencies have conducted investigations or asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. for example, in 2016, the epa released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that "water cycle" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. additionally, the epa has asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the sdwa's uic program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and has issued guidance covering such activities. moreover, the epa has published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing under the toxic substances control act and has implemented a final rule under the cwa prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants. also, the federal bureau of land management ("blm") published a final rule in 2015 that established new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and indian lands. the blm rescinded the 2015 rule in late 2017; however, litigation challenging the blm's decision to rescind the 2015 rule remains pending in federal district court. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the additives used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. in addition, certain states, including texas where the company operates, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. for example, in april 2019, colorado passed legislation reforming exploration and production activities by the oil and gas industry in the state including, among other things, revising the mission of the state oil and gas agency from fostering energy development in the state to instead focusing on regulating the industry in a manner that is protective of public health and safety and the environment, as well as authorizing cities and counties to regulate oil and gas operations within their jurisdictions as they do other development. while the company does not conduct operations in colorado, passage or enactment of similar legislation in other states in which it does operate could significantly increase the company's operating costs and have a 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company significant adverse effect on the company's ability to conduct operations. states could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing or high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the states of vermont, maryland and new york. also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may be adopted to restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. in texas, legislation was adopted providing that the regulation of oil and gas operations in texas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and thus preempts local regulation of those operations. nonetheless, municipalities and political subdivisions in texas continue to have the right to enact "commercially reasonable" regulations for surface activities. also, the threat of climate change has resulted in increasing political risks in the united states, including climate-related pledges to ban hydraulic fracturing of oil and gas wells being made by certain candidates seeking the office of president of the united states in 2020. additionally, senator bernie sanders (d-vt), who is one of the presidential candidates that has pledged to ban hydraulic fracturing, introduced senate bill 3247 on january 28, 2020 that, if enacted as proposed, would ban hydraulic fracturing nationwide by 2025. in the event federal, state or local restrictions or bans pertaining to hydraulic fracturing are adopted in areas where the company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements, experience restrictions, delays or cancellations in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves; one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities. the company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the drilling of wells, rates of production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, ngl and gas, and the discharging of materials into the environment and environmental protection. for example, state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company's interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws (i) establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, (ii) generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and (iii) impose requirements regarding production rates. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations that the company can drill. in connection with its operations, the company must obtain and maintain numerous environmental and oil and gas-related permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. the need to obtain permits has the potential to delay, curtail or cease the development of oil and gas projects. the company may in the future be charged royalties on gas emissions or required to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions-related issues. for example, in 2015, the epa issued a final rule under the caa lowering the national ambient air quality standard ("naaqs") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion under standards to provide protection of public health and welfare. in subsequent years, the epa has issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone and final requirements that apply to state, local and tribal air agencies for implementing the 2015 naaqs for ground-level ozone. state implementation of the revised naaqs could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, resulting in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase the company's capital expenditures and operating costs. in another example, the epa and u.s. army corps of engineers (the "corps") released a final rule in 2015 outlining federal jurisdictional reach under the cwa over waters of the u.s., including wetlands. in 2017, the epa and the corps agreed to reconsider the 2015 rule and, thereafter, on october 22, 2019, the agencies published a final rule, which became effective on december 31, 2019, rescinding the 2015 rule. on january 23, 2020, the two agencies issued a final rule re-defining the clean water act's jurisdiction over waters of the united states, which redefinition is narrower than found in the 2015 rule. upon being published in the federal register and the passage of 60 days thereafter, the january 23, 2020 final rule will become effective, at which point the united states will be covered under a single regulatory scheme as it relates to federal jurisdictional reach over waters of the united states. however, there remains the expectation that the january 23, 2020 final rule also will be legally challenged in federal district court. to the extent that any challenge to the january 23, 2020 final rule is successful and the 2015 rule or a revised rule expands the scope of the clean water act's jurisdiction in areas where the company conducts operations, the company could incur (i) delays, restrictions or prohibitions in the issuance of necessary permits, (ii) restrictions or cessations in the development or expansion of projects, or (iii) increases in the company's capital expenditures and operating expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the company's equipment, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company additionally, the company's operations are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal osha and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of employees. among other things, the osha hazard communication standard, the epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of the federal superfund amendment and reauthorization act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in the company's operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. there can be no assurance that existing or future regulations will not result in a delay, curtailment or cessation of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or materially and adversely affect the company's future operations and financial condition. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups or corrective actions, delays in permitting or performance of projects, natural resource damages and other liabilities. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. in addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement in the future with more stringent legal requirements. further, any delay, reduction or curtailment of the company's development and producing operations due to these laws and regulations could result in the loss of acreage through lease expiration. the nature of the company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the company. the company's assets and production operations may give rise to significant environmental costs and liabilities as a result of the company's handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. the company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, treatment, storage, transport and disposal of wastes, hazardous substances and petroleum hydrocarbons and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil and produced water spills, ngl and gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of such wastes, substances and hydrocarbons, that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. for example, drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the company's exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently excluded under rcra from the definition of hazardous waste. these wastes are instead regulated under rcra's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. there have been efforts from time to time to remove this exclusion. for example, in response to a federal consent decree issued in 2016, the epa was required during 2019 to determine whether certain subtitle d criteria regulations required revision in a manner that could result in oil and gas wastes being regulated as rcra hazardous waste. in april 2019, the epa made a determination that such revision of the regulations was unnecessary. any future loss of the rcra exclusion could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial position. the company currently owns, leases or operates, and in the past has owned, leased or operated, properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. these wastes, substances and hydrocarbons may also be released during future operations. in addition, some of the company's properties have been operated by predecessors or previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the company's control. joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes on, under or from the company's properties. private parties, including lessors of properties on which the company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the company's operations and facilities where the company's petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or damage to property or natural resources. such properties and the substances disposed or released on or under them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws, which could require the company to remove previously disposed substances, wastes and petroleum hydrocarbons, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not insurable or fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company's operations are subject to a number of risks arising out of concerns regarding the threat of climate change, including regulatory, political, litigation and financial risks, that could result in increased operating costs and costs of compliance, limit the areas in which oil and gas production may occur, reduce demand for the oil and gas the company produces, and expose the company to the risk of increased activism and decreased funding for the industry, while the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the company's production and cause it to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. the threat of climate change continues to attract considerable attention in the united states and in foreign countries. numerous initiatives have been proposed and are expected to continue to be proposed at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit existing sources of ghg emissions as well as to restrict or eliminate emissions from new sources. as a result, the company's operations are subject to a series of regulatory, political, litigation and financial risks associated with the production and processing of fossil fuels and emission of ghgs. in the united states, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented at the federal level. however, following the u.s. supreme court finding that ghg emissions constitute a pollutant under the caa, the epa has adopted regulations that, among other things, (i) establish construction and operating permit reviews for ghg emissions from certain large stationary sources, (ii) require the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions from certain petroleum and gas system sources in the united states, (iii) implement caa emission standards directing the reduction of methane from certain new, modified, or reconstructed facilities in the oil and gas sector, and (iv) together with the dot, implement ghg emissions limits on vehicles manufactured for operation in the united states. additionally, various states, groups of states, and other countries have adopted or are considering adopting legislation, regulations or other regulatory initiatives that are focused on such areas as ghg cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, reporting and tracking programs, and restriction of emissions. at the international level, there is a non-binding agreement, the united nations sponsored "paris agreement," for nations to limit their ghg emissions through individually-determined reduction goals every five years after 2020, although the united states has announced its withdrawal from such agreement, effective november 4, 2020. governmental, scientific, and public concern over the threat of climate change arising from ghg emissions has resulted in increasing political risks in the united states, including climate change related pledges made by certain candidates seeking the office of the president of the united states in 2020. critical declarations made by one or more candidates running for president include proposals to ban hydraulic fracturing of oil and gas wells and ban new leases for production of minerals on federal properties, including onshore lands and offshore waters. other actions that could be pursued by presidential candidates may include more restrictive requirements for the establishment of pipeline infrastructure or the permitting of lng export facilities, the reversal of the united states' withdrawal from the paris agreement in november 2020 and reinstatement of the ban on oil exports. litigation risks are also increasing, as a number of cities, local governments or other persons have sought to bring suit against oil and gas exploration and production companies in state or federal court, alleging, among other things, that such companies created public nuisances by producing fuels that contributed to global warming effects, such as rising sea levels, and therefore are responsible for roadway and infrastructure damages, or alleging that the companies have been aware of the adverse effects of climate change for some time but defrauded their investors by failing to adequately disclose those impacts. there are also financial risks for fossil fuel producers as stockholders or bondholders currently invested in fossil-fuel energy companies concerned about the threat of climate change may elect in the future to shift some or all of their investments into non-fossil fuel energy related sectors. institutional lenders who provide financing to fossil-fuel energy companies also have become more attentive to sustainable lending practices and some of them may elect not to provide funding for fossil fuel energy companies. additionally, investing and lending practices of various investment firms and institutional lenders have been the subject of intensive lobbying efforts in recent years, oftentimes public in nature, by environmental activists, proponents of the paris agreement, and foreign citizenry concerned about the threat of climate change not to provide funding for fossil fuel producers. for example, there have been efforts in recent years to influence the investment community, including investment advisors and certain sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds, to divest of fossil fuel equities and lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. limitation of investments in and financings for fossil fuel energy companies could result in the restriction, delay or cancellation of drilling programs or development or production activities. the adoption and implementation of new or more stringent international, federal or state regulations or other regulatory initiatives that impose more stringent standards for ghg emissions from the oil and gas sector or otherwise restrict the areas in which this sector may produce oil and gas or generate ghg emissions could result in increased compliance and consumption costs, and thereby reduce demand for the oil and gas the company produces. additionally, political, litigation and financial risks could result in the restriction or cancellation of production activities, incurring liability for infrastructure damages as a result of climate changes, or impairing the company's ability to continue to operate in an economic manner. finally, if increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere were to result in significant physical effects, such as increased 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other extreme climatic events, then such effects could have a material adverse effect on the company's exploration and production operations. in addition, companies in the oil and gas industry have been the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations, including instituting litigation and supporting political or regulatory efforts to, among other things, limit or ban hydraulic fracturing, restrict or ban certain operating practices, including the disposal of waste materials, such as hydraulic fracturing fluids and produced water, deny or delay drilling permits, prohibit the venting or flaring of gas, reduce access of the oil and gas industry to federal and state government lands, and delay or cancel oil and gas developmental or expansion projects. the company may need to incur significant costs associated with responding to these initiatives, and complying with any resulting additional legal or regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. laws and regulations pertaining to protection of threatened and endangered species or to critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources could delay, restrict or prohibit the company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on the company's development and production of reserves. the federal esa and comparable state laws were established to protect endangered and threatened species. under the esa, if a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species' habitat. similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the federal migratory bird treaty act. oil and gas operations in the company's operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions imposed on drilling activities by the u.s. fish and wildlife services (the "fws") that are designed to protect various wildlife, which may materially restrict the company's access to federal or private land use. permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered and threatened species could prohibit drilling in certain areas, impact suppliers of critical materials or services, or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. additionally, federal statutes, including the cwa, the opa and cercla, as well as comparable state laws, prohibit certain actions that adversely affect critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. moreover, the fws may make determinations with respect to the listing of species as endangered or threatened under the esa, which may result in more fulsome protections for non-protected or lesser-protected species. the designation of previously unprotected species or the re-designation of under protected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the company conducts operations could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays, restrictions or prohibitions on its development and production activities that could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to develop and produce reserves. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company's proved oil and gas properties, which could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. significant or extended price declines could result in the company having to make downward adjustments to the carrying value of its proved oil and gas properties. the company performs assessments of its oil and gas properties whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. in order to perform these assessments, management uses various observable and unobservable inputs, including management's outlooks for (i) proved reserves and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, (ii) commodity prices, (iii) production costs, (iv) capital expenditures and (v) production. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. for example, during 2018 and 2017, the company recorded impairment charges of $77 million and $285 million, respectively, attributable to its raton basin field in southeast colorado, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to the asset. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company's results of operations in the period incurred. see "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - results of operations - impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets" and note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" and note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for additional information. (f) the company's other liabilities represent current and noncurrent other liabilities that are comprised of litigation and environmental contingencies, asset retirement obligations and other obligations for which neither the ultimate settlement amounts nor their timings can be precisely determined in advance. see note 9 and note 11 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, the company's financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with changes in commodity prices, interest rate movements on outstanding debt and credit risks. these risks are mitigated through the company's risk management program, which includes the use of derivative financial instruments and sales of purchased oil and gas. the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2019, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. the company does not enter into any financial instruments, including derivatives, for speculative or trading purposes. interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2019, the company had no variable rate debt outstanding under its credit facility and therefore no related exposure to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2019, the company had $2.3 billion of fixed rate long-term debt outstanding with an weighted average interest rate of 5.3 percent. although changes in interest rates may affect the fair value of the company's fixed rate long-term debt, any changes would not expose the company to the risk of material earnings or cash flow losses. the company did not have any interest rate derivative instruments outstanding as of december 31, 2019, however it may enter into additional such instruments in the future to mitigate interest rate risk. see note 4 , n o te 5 and note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in "risk factors 14 risk factors, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 4 table of contents part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states, south africa and tunisia. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company executive offices are located at 5205 n. o connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; london, england; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2009, the company had 1,888 employees, 1,151 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer long-term profitability, net asset value and net asset value per share. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline while enhancing net asset value per share through accretive drilling programs, acquisitions, debt reduction, dividend distributions and share repurchases. these strategies are anchored by the company long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields, which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 88 percent of the company proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2009. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing throughout 2009, the united states and other industrialized countries experienced a significant economic slowdown, which led to a substantial decline in worldwide energy demand. during this same time period, north american gas supply increased as a result of the rise in domestic unconventional gas production. the combination of lower energy demand due to the economic slowdown and higher north american gas supply resulted in significant declines in oil, ngl and gas prices. while oil and ngl prices started to steadily improve beginning in the second quarter of 2009, gas prices remained volatile throughout 2009 due to high storage levels and increasing gas supply. the outlook for a worldwide economic recovery in 2010 remains uncertain and, therefore, the timing of a recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, it is likely that commodity prices during 2010 will continue to be volatile. 5 table of contents for the several years preceding the 2008 economic slowdown, the petroleum industry had generally been characterized by volatile but upward-trending oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during that period, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from developing economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the middle east, nigeria, venezuela and other areas. in 2007 and the first half of 2008, oil prices increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding middle east conflicts and increasing world demand for both oil and refined products. a significant increase in refinery outages led to tightness in products markets, which was responsible for oil price strength throughout much of 2007 and the early part of 2008. north american gas prices increased during the first half of 2008 as a result of reduced inventory levels and a perceived shortage of north american gas supply and an anticipation that the united states would become a larger importer of lng, which was selling at a substantial premium to united states gas prices in the world market. however, by mid-year 2008 it became increasingly apparent that the capital investment in gas drilling and discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays would be more than sufficient to meet the unites states demand. coupled with the economic slowdown experienced in the second half of 2008, the increased supply of gas resulted in a sharp decline in north american gas prices. significant factors that the company expects to impact 2010 commodity prices include: the effect of economic stimulus initiatives being implemented in the united states and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic slowdown; developments in the issues affecting the middle east in general; demand of asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity derivative contracts. although the company has entered into derivative contracts on a large portion of its forecasted production through 2012, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company internally-generated cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. the duration, timing and magnitude of any period of lower commodity prices cannot be predicted. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the company liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding the effect on oil, ngl and gas revenues during 2009, 2008 and 2007 from the company derivative price risk management activities and the company open derivative positions at december 31, 2009. the company. the company asset base is anchored by the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the hugoton gas field located in southwest kansas and the west panhandle gas field located in the texas panhandle. complementing these areas, the company has exploration and development opportunities and/or oil and gas production activities in the eagle ford and edwards trend areas of south texas, the barnett shale area of north texas and alaska, and internationally in south africa and tunisia. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well- balanced among oil, ngls and gas, and that are also well-balanced among long-lived, dependable production, lower-risk exploration and development opportunities and a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. additionally, the company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to united states and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. production operations are principally located domestically in texas, kansas, colorado and alaska, and internationally in south africa and tunisia. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. during the year ended december 31, 2009, the company average daily production, on a boe basis, increased three percent as compared to 2008 as a 6 table of contents result of a full year of production from the successful development drilling programs in the spraberry field during 2008, the addition of the sable gas well during the fourth quarter of 2008 to production from the south coast gas project in south africa, development activities in tunisia and a seven percent decrease in scheduled deliveries of vpp volumes. production, price and cost information with respect to the company properties for 2009, 2008 and 2007 is set forth under item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data. development activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2009, the company drilled 1,203 gross (1,154 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company interest) of $2.4 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company proved reserves as of december 31, 2009 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 186 mmbbls of oil, 66 mmbbls of ngls and 870 bcf of gas. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company expected operating cash flows and financial condition. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly-skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities complemented by a limited number of higher-impact exploration opportunities. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see item 1a. risk factors exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves below. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2009, 2008 and 2007, the company invested $88.9 million, $137.6 million and $536.7 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. see note c of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for a description of the company acquisitions of proved oil and gas properties during 2009, 2008 and 2007. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company control. see item 1a. risk factors the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. see notes n and v of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for specific information regarding the company asset divestitures and discontinued operations during 2009, 2008 and 2007. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. 7 table of contents operations by geographic area the company operates in one industry segment, that being oil and gas exploration and production, in three geographic areas. see note r of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets. marketing of production general. production from the company properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as the index or spot prices, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see qualitative disclosures in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2009, the company significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (10 percent), conocophillips (9 percent), occidental energy marketing, inc. (7 percent), enterprise products partners l.p. (6 percent) and oneok resources (5 percent). the company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. derivative risk management activities. the company from time to time utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. as of january 31, 2009, the company discontinued hedge accounting and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ( mtm ) method of accounting. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a description of the company derivative risk management activities, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative losses during 2009, 2008 and 2007, as well as the company open and terminated commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2009. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company growth. the company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. many of the company competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company common stock, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of the company commons stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. 8 table of contents environmental matters and regulations. the company operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. these laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. these laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, the united states congress and state legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the company operating costs. the following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which the company business operations are subject. waste handling. the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the auspices of the federal environmental protection agency (the epa ), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under rcra non-hazardous waste provisions. it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. any such change could result in an increase in the company costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and financial position. also, in the course of the company operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ( norm ) may also be generated in connection with the company operations. certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of norm, which may be present in oilfield wastes. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the occupational safety and health administration ( osha ). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla ), also known as the superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have been released 9 table of contents on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. in addition, some of the company properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under the company control. in fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the company. these properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. water discharges and use. the clean water act (the cwa ) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act ( opa ), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. operations associated with the company properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in underground wells. these injection wells are regulated by the safe drinking water act (the sdwa ) and analogous state and local laws. the underground injection well program under the sdwa requires permits from the epa or analogous state agency for the company disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company properties comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the company ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the company operations. in addition, the united states congress is considering amending the sdwa to require additional regulation of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, and some states are considering similar regulations. the water produced by the company cbm operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. in a recent case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a cbm competitor in a different cbm basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court held that water produced in connection with the cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. the company cbm or other oil and gas operations and the company ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected, and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the company cost of doing business. air emissions. the federal clean air act (the caa ) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. in addition, the epa has developed, and continues to 10 table of contents develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal caa and associated state laws and regulations. permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. in addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the caa. failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. the texas commission on environmental quality (the tceq ) recently concluded an analysis of air emissions of third-party operators in the barnett shale area in response to reported concerns about high concentrations of benzene in the air near drilling sites and gas processing facilities. the tceq investigation revealed elevated levels of benzene and other emissions at certain locations. the agency has announced that it will continue monitoring emissions and will investigate all complaints about oil and gas activities in the barnett shale area within 12 hours of receipt. the agency investigations could lead to more stringent air permitting, increased regulation and possible enforcement actions against producers, including pioneer, in the barnett shale area. in addition, environmental groups have advocated for increased regulation in the barnett shale area, and at least one state representative has advocated a moratorium on the issuance of drilling permits for new gas wells in the area. any adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing gas drilling and operating activities in the barnett shale that result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new gas wells for any extended period of time could increase the company costs and/or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and cash flows. health and safety. the company operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act (the osh act ) and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osh act hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company operations. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other osh act and comparable requirements. global warming and climate change. on december 15, 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or ghgs, present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. these findings by the epa allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the caa. in late september 2009, the epa had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of ghg emission limitations in caa permits for certain stationary sources. in addition, on september 22, 2009, the epa issued a final rule requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. the adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of ghgs from, the company equipment and operations could require the company to incur costs to reduce emissions of ghgs associated with the company operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, ngl and gas that the company produces. also, on june 26, 2009, the u.s. house of representatives approved adoption of the american clean energy and security act of 2009 ( acesa ), which is also known as the waxman-markey cap-and-trade legislation. the purpose of acesa is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states. acesa would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of ghgs in the united states and would require an overall reduction in ghg emissions of 17% (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80% by 2050. under acesa, most sources of ghg emissions would be required to obtain ghg emission allowances corresponding to their annual emissions of ghgs. the number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet acesa overall emission reduction goals. as the number of ghg emission allowances permitted by acesa declines each year, the 11 table of contents cost or value of allowances would be expected to escalate significantly. the net effect of acesa would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products and gas. the u.s. senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of ghgs in the united states. if the senate adopts ghg legislation that is different from acesa, the senate legislation would need to be reconciled with acesa and both chambers would be required to approve identical legislation before it could become law. in addition, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. finally, other nations have been seeking to reduce emissions of ghgs pursuant to the united nations framework convention on climate change, also known as the kyoto protocol, an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the united states) have agreed to reduce their emissions of ghgs to below 1990 levels by 2012. depending on the particular jurisdiction in which the company operations are located, it could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for ghg emissions resulting from the company operations. the company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the company current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. for instance, the company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended december 31, 2009. additionally, the company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2010. however, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the company operations, and the company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. moreover, the company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous departments and agencies, foreign, federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company cost of doing business by increasing the cost of transporting its production to market, these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. for example, the company properties located in colorado are subject to the authority of the colorado oil &amp; gas conservation commission (the cogcc ). the cogcc has recently promulgated new rules that are likely to increase the company costs of permitting and environmental compliance, and to extend waiting periods for the acquisition of permits. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company wells or limit the number of wells or the 12 table of contents locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or to limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. the interstate transportation and sale for resale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ). the ferc regulations for interstate gas transmission in some circumstances may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas. as a result of initiatives like ferc order no. 636 ( order 636 ), issued in april 1992, the interstate gas transportation and marketing system has been substantially restructured to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers. the most significant provisions of order 636 require that interstate pipelines provide firm and interruptible transportation service on an open access basis that is equal for all gas supplies. in many instances, the results of order 636 and related initiatives have been to substantially reduce or eliminate the interstate pipelines traditional role as wholesalers of gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation services. in august 2005, congress enacted the energy policy act of 2005 ( epact 2005 ). among other matters, epact 2005 amends the natural gas act ( nga ) to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non-jurisdictional producers such as the company, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by the ferc. the ferc rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of the ferc, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of the ferc, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. epact 2005 also gives the ferc authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the nga up to $1.0 million per day per violation. the anti-manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non-jurisdictional sales or gathering, but does apply to activities of otherwise non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to ferc jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under order 704 (defined below). in december 2007, the ferc issued rules ( order 704 ) requiring that any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus during a calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to the ferc. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist the ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. although gas prices are currently unregulated, congress historically has been active in the area of gas regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate gas or gas prices might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company operations. sales of condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. gas gathering. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in foreign, federal and/or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by such changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company business activities. other risks are described in item 1. business competition, markets and regulations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the company revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of lng deliveries to the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, oil prices reached record levels in july 2008 of $145.29 per bbl before declining to $33.87 per bbl in december, while gas prices reached $13.58 per mcf before declining to $5.29 per mcf over the same period. during 2009, oil prices increased from a low of $33.98 per bbl in february to a high of $81.37 per bbl in october while gas prices declined from $6.07 per mcf in january to $2.51 per mcf in september. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. such increases could reduce the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. 14 table of contents the company derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the company exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts will be reported in the company statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes, the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations, or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced revenue and liquidity when prices decline, as occurred in late 2008 and during 2009. the failure by counterparties to the company derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material, adverse effect on the company results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company future production being subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and costs of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of, drilling rigs, equipment and personnel. the company future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2010. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. although the company has experienced some decrease in these costs over the past year, such decreases could be short-lived. a return to the trends of increasing demand and costs in the future may affect the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled and on budget. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to the company estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge will be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. for example, during 2009, the company recognized impairment charges of $21.1 million due to the 15 table of contents impairment of the company net assets in the uinta/piceance areas, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2009, the company carried unproved property costs of $236.7 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company growth. the company growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the impact on the company liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the current economic outlook has affected the level of sales activity for oil and gas properties. the higher cost of credit has limited third parties ability to acquire properties, and the potential value of the company properties is likely to decline if adverse economic conditions continue. 16 table of contents the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2009, the company carried goodwill of $309.3 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a july 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) future reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) changes in management outlook on commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company market capitalization, (e) changes in the company weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2009, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and eleven treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and all eleven of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. the company operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. for example, in 2008, damage caused by hurricanes gustav and ike to a third-party facility that fractionates ngls from a portion of the company production resulted in a portion of the company production being shut in or curtailed from early september to mid-november 2008 while repairs and maintenance to the facility were being completed. 17 table of contents the company expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company future drilling plans. the company ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company expectations for success. as such, the company actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market its oil and gas production. the marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell its oil and gas production. the company plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission, storage or processing facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. the nature of the company assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental matters and regulations above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding the company outstanding debt as of december 31, 2009 and the terms associated therewith. the company ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a discussion of the company debt credit ratings. 18 table of contents the company faces significant competition, and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the company available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to operate and develop properties. many of the company competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations for additional discussion regarding competition. the company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. the company business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, the company properties located in colorado are subject to the authority of the colorado oil &amp; gas conservation commission (the cogcc ), which recently passed certain rules that will increase the length of time needed to obtain certain permits and will increase the company costs of permitting and environmental compliance. in addition, in connection with the company cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court recently affirmed a state water court holding that water produced in connection with cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing permits, possible uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company business and operations, including that the company may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut in production pending compliance. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations for additional discussion regarding government regulation. the company international operations may be adversely affected by economic, political and other factors. at december 31, 2009, two percent of the company proved reserves were located outside the united states. the success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including: economic and labor conditions; war, terrorist acts and civil disturbances; political instability; loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of actions taken by foreign countries where the company has operations, such as expropriation or nationalization of assets and renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts; changes in taxation policies (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and united states taxes on foreign subsidiaries); laws and policies of the united states and foreign jurisdictions affecting foreign investment, trade and business conduct; and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. in some cases, the market for the company production in foreign countries is limited to some extent. for example, all of the company gas and condensate production from the south coast gas project in south africa is currently committed by contract to a single, government-affiliated gas-to-liquids facility. if such facility ceased to purchase the gas because of an unforeseen event, it might be difficult to find an alternative market for the production, and if such a market were secured, the price received by the company might be less than that provided under its current gas sales contract. see qualitative disclosures foreign currency, operations and price risk in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding other risks associated with the company international operations. 19 table of contents estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: the quantities of oil, ngls and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production and operating costs incurred; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. the company reports all proved reserves held under concessions utilizing the economic interest method, which excludes the host country share of proved reserves. estimated quantities reported under the economic interest method are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. if costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company proved reserves. 20 table of contents the company actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely affected. in addition, the company forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the company oil and gas operations summarized in this item 1a occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. the company may be unable to complete its plans to repurchase its common stock. the board of directors (the board ) approves share repurchase programs and sets limits on the price per share at which pioneer common stock can be repurchased. from time to time, the company may not be permitted to repurchase its stock during certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading blackouts. additionally, business conditions and availability of capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or canceled. as a result, there can be no assurance that additional repurchase programs will be commenced and, if so, that they will be completed. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of a publicly-traded limited partnership. as such, the subsidiary operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of pioneer southwest energy partners l.p., a publicly-traded limited partnership formed by the company to own and acquire oil and gas assets in its area of operations. as general partner, the subsidiary may be deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations to the partnership. activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to others typically involve a higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interest is found to exist. any such liability may be material. a failure by purchasers of the company production to perform their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company results of operation. while the credit markets, the availability of credit and the equity markets have improved during 2009, the economic outlook for 2010 remains uncertain. to the extent that purchasers of the company production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. the company may not be able to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under its current credit facility in the event of a deterioration of the credit and capital markets, which could hinder or prevent the company from meeting its future capital needs. during 2009, access to the debt and equity capital markets improved. however, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets was higher than historical levels as many lenders and institutional investors increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers. if these events were to recur, the company could be unable to obtain adequate funding under its current credit facility because (i) the company lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount the company may borrow under its current credit facility could be reduced as a result of lower oil, ngl or gas prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements or regulations, or for other reasons. for example, the company credit facility requires that the company maintain a specified ratio of the net present value of the company oil and gas properties to total debt, with the variables on which the calculation of net 21 table of contents present value is based (including assumed commodity prices and discount rates) being subject to adjustment by the lenders. due to these factors, the company cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the company may be unable to implement its business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company production, revenues and results of operations. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse affect on the company results of operations. concerns over the worldwide economic outlook, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the united states mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the united states have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. these factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, precipitated a worldwide recession. concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices, both of which contributed to a decline in the company share price and corresponding market capitalization during 2008. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad deteriorates, demand for petroleum products could further diminish, which could further depress the prices at which the company can sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company net revenue and profitability. certain u.s. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. president obama proposed fiscal year 2011 budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to united states tax laws, including the elimination of certain key u.s. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. these changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. each of these changes is proposed to be effective for taxable years beginning, or in the case of costs described in (ii) and (iv), costs paid or incurred, after december 31, 2010. it is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. any such change could negatively affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the adoption of climate change legislation by congress or regulation by the epa could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces. on december 15, 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or ghgs, present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. these findings by the epa allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal clean air act. the adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of ghgs from, the company equipment and operations could require the company to incur costs to reduce emissions of ghgs associated with the company operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, ngl and gas that the company produces. also, on june 26, 2009, the united states house of representatives approved adoption of acesa. the purpose of which is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the united states. the united states senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of ghgs in the united states. it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty whether climate change legislation will be enacted, but any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of ghgs would likely require the company to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil, ngls and gas it produces. see competition, markets and regulations in item 1. business. 22 table of contents the adoption of derivatives legislation by the united states congress could have an adverse effect on the company ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risk associated with its business. the united states congress currently is considering comprehensive financial reform legislation that includes restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives. this legislation also would provide the commodity futures trading commission ( cftc ) with express authority to impose position limits related to energy commodities, such as oil and gas. separately, the cftc is proposing regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the cftc may adopt rules or the united states congress may act on derivatives legislation, any laws or regulations that may be adopted could have an adverse effect on the company ability to utilize derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risk associated with its business. federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. the united states congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal safe drinking water act to regulate chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, and some other states are considering similar regulations. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. sponsors of bills currently pending before the united states senate and house of representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. the proposed legislation also would require the disclosure of chemical constituents used in the fracturing process to state or federal regulatory agencies, which could make such information publicly available. the availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. in addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase the company costs of compliance and doing business. provisions of the company charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company common stock. provisions in the company certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. the company has also adopted a shareholder rights plan. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative disclosures 65 qualitative disclosures 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 4 table of contents part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states, south africa and tunisia. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company executive offices are located at 5205 n. o connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; london, england; capetown, south africa and tunis, tunisia. at december 31, 2009, the company had 1,888 employees, 1,151 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer long-term profitability, net asset value and net asset value per share. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline while enhancing net asset value per share through accretive drilling programs, acquisitions, debt reduction, dividend distributions and share repurchases. these strategies are anchored by the company long-lived spraberry oil field and hugoton, raton and west panhandle gas fields, which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 88 percent of the company proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2009. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing throughout 2009, the united states and other industrialized countries experienced a significant economic slowdown, which led to a substantial decline in worldwide energy demand. during this same time period, north american gas supply increased as a result of the rise in domestic unconventional gas production. the combination of lower energy demand due to the economic slowdown and higher north american gas supply resulted in significant declines in oil, ngl and gas prices. while oil and ngl prices started to steadily improve beginning in the second quarter of 2009, gas prices remained volatile throughout 2009 due to high storage levels and increasing gas supply. the outlook for a worldwide economic recovery in 2010 remains uncertain and, therefore, the timing of a recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, it is likely that commodity prices during 2010 will continue to be volatile. 5 table of contents for the several years preceding the 2008 economic slowdown, the petroleum industry had generally been characterized by volatile but upward-trending oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during that period, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from developing economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the middle east, nigeria, venezuela and other areas. in 2007 and the first half of 2008, oil prices increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding middle east conflicts and increasing world demand for both oil and refined products. a significant increase in refinery outages led to tightness in products markets, which was responsible for oil price strength throughout much of 2007 and the early part of 2008. north american gas prices increased during the first half of 2008 as a result of reduced inventory levels and a perceived shortage of north american gas supply and an anticipation that the united states would become a larger importer of lng, which was selling at a substantial premium to united states gas prices in the world market. however, by mid-year 2008 it became increasingly apparent that the capital investment in gas drilling and discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays would be more than sufficient to meet the unites states demand. coupled with the economic slowdown experienced in the second half of 2008, the increased supply of gas resulted in a sharp decline in north american gas prices. significant factors that the company expects to impact 2010 commodity prices include: the effect of economic stimulus initiatives being implemented in the united states and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic slowdown; developments in the issues affecting the middle east in general; demand of asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals. to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, pioneer utilizes commodity derivative contracts. although the company has entered into derivative contracts on a large portion of its forecasted production through 2012, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company internally-generated cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. the duration, timing and magnitude of any period of lower commodity prices cannot be predicted. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the company liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2009, the company significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (10 percent), conocophillips (9 percent), occidental energy marketing, inc. (7 percent), enterprise products partners l.p. (6 percent) and oneok resources (5 percent). the company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. derivative risk management activities. the company from time to time utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. as of january 31, 2009, the company discontinued hedge accounting and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ( mtm ) method of accounting. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a description of the company derivative risk management activities, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the company revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of lng deliveries to the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, oil prices reached record levels in july 2008 of $145.29 per bbl before declining to $33.87 per bbl in december, while gas prices reached $13.58 per mcf before declining to $5.29 per mcf over the same period. during 2009, oil prices increased from a low of $33.98 per bbl in february to a high of $81.37 per bbl in october while gas prices declined from $6.07 per mcf in january to $2.51 per mcf in september. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. such increases could reduce the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. 14 table of contents the company derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the company exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts will be reported in the company statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes, the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations, or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced revenue and liquidity when prices decline, as occurred in late 2008 and during 2009. the failure by counterparties to the company derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material, adverse effect on the company results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company future production being subject to commodity price changes. exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and costs of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of, drilling rigs, equipment and personnel. the company future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2010. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. although the company has experienced some decrease in these costs over the past year, such decreases could be short-lived. a return to the trends of increasing demand and costs in the future may affect the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled and on budget. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to the company estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge will be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. for example, during 2009, the company recognized impairment charges of $21.1 million due to the 15 table of contents impairment of the company net assets in the uinta/piceance areas, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2009, the company carried unproved property costs of $236.7 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company growth. the company growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the impact on the company liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the current economic outlook has affected the level of sales activity for oil and gas properties. the higher cost of credit has limited third parties ability to acquire properties, and the potential value of the company properties is likely to decline if adverse economic conditions continue. 16 table of contents the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2009, the company carried goodwill of $309.3 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a july 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) future reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) changes in management outlook on commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company market capitalization, (e) changes in the company weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2009, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and eleven treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and all eleven of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. the company operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. for example, in 2008, damage caused by hurricanes gustav and ike to a third-party facility that fractionates ngls from a portion of the company production resulted in a portion of the company production being shut in or curtailed from early september to mid-november 2008 while repairs and maintenance to the facility were being completed. 17 table of contents the company expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company future drilling plans. the company ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company expectations for success. as such, the company actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market its oil and gas production. the marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell its oil and gas production. the company plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission, storage or processing facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. the nature of the company assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental matters and regulations above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and notes b and j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data for information about the company derivative contracts and associated accounting methods. (d) during 2009, the company recorded $119.3 million of pretax income for the recovery of excess royalties paid on oil and gas production from its deepwater gulf of mexico properties during the period from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2005, and a $17.5 million pretax gain, primarily from the sale of substantially all of its gulf of mexico shelf properties. the company gulf of mexico shelf and deepwater properties were sold effective july 1, 2009 and january 1, 2006, respectively. the results of operations of these properties, and certain other properties sold during the periods presented are classified as discontinued operations in accordance with gaap. see notes b and v of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data for more information about the company discontinued operations. (e) income from continuing operations per share and net income attributable to common stockholders per share amounts have been restated for the january 1, 2009 adoption of fasb staff position eitf 03-6-1 ( fsp eitf 03-6-1 ) to exclude the earnings of participating securities in the determination of net income (loss) per share. see notes b and q of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and notes f and j, respectively of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional disclosures about the company commodity related derivative financial instruments. the following table provides the net effect of transfers of previously deferred oil, ngl and gas price hedges from aoci hedging to oil, ngl and gas revenues from continuing operations for the years ending december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: year ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 increase (decrease) to oil revenue from hedging activity $ 88,873 $ (336,249 ) $ (154,071 ) increase (decrease) to ngl revenue from hedging activity 9,402 (1,781 ) increase (decrease) to gas revenue from hedging activity 22,791 (17,533 ) 70,624 total $ 121,066 $ (355,563 ) $ (83,447 ) deferred revenue. during 2009, 2008 and 2007, the company recognition of previously deferred vpp revenue increased oil and gas revenues from continuing operations by $147.9 million, $158.1 million and $181.2 million, respectively. the company amortization of deferred vpp revenue is scheduled to increase 2010 oil and gas revenues by $90.2 million. see note t of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations and note f of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and notes e and j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2009, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices, market interest rates or foreign exchange rates. the fair value of the company derivative contracts is determined based on the company valuation models and applications, which are validated against counterparties estimates. the company did not change its valuation method during 2009. during 2009, the company was a party to commodity, interest rate and foreign exchange rate swap contracts, commodity collar contracts, commodity collar contracts with short put options and ngl percentage of west texas intermediate ( wti ) oil index contracts. the following table reconciles the changes that occurred in the fair values of the company open derivative contracts during 2009: derivative contract net assets (liabilities) (a) commodities interest rate total (in thousands) fair value of contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2008 $ 112,286 $ (9,903 ) $ 102,383 changes in contract fair values (b) (170,426 ) (17,212 ) (187,638 ) contract maturities (74,998 ) 9,274 (65,724 ) contract terminations 11,576 11,576 fair value of contracts outstanding as of december 31, 2009 $ (121,562 ) $ (17,841 ) $ (139,403 ) (a) represents the fair values of open derivative contracts subject to market risk. the company also had $17.9 million and $40.3 million of obligations under terminated derivatives as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for which no market risk exists. (b) at inception, new derivative contracts entered into by the company have no intrinsic value. effective february 1, 2009, the company discontinued hedge accounting on all existing commodity derivative instruments, and since that date has accounted for derivative instruments using the mtm accounting method. therefore, the company recognizes changes in the fair values of its derivative contracts as gains or losses in the earnings of the period in which they occur. see note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included inrisk factors 15 risk factors, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states and south africa. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company executive offices are located at 5205 n. o connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; london, england and capetown, south africa. at december 31, 2010, the company had 2,248 employees, 1,399 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company interests in long-lived spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford, barnett shale combo, hugoton and west panhandle fields; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 90 percent of the company proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2010. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. for several years preceding 2008, the petroleum industry was generally characterized by volatile, but upward trending, oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during the first half of 2008, north american gas prices increased as a result of reduced inventory levels, a perceived shortage of north american gas supply and anticipation that the united states would become a larger importer of lng, which was then selling in the world market at a substantial premium to united states gas prices. however, by mid-year 2008, it became apparent that capital investments in gas drilling and discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays would cause domestic gas supply to exceed existing united states gas demand. beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing throughout most of 2009, the united states and other industrialized countries experienced a significant economic slowdown, which 6 table of contents led to a substantial decline in worldwide energy demand. declining energy demand due to the economic slowdown, together with the increased supply of united states gas, resulted in sharp declines in oil, ngl and north american gas prices during the second half of 2008 and first half of 2009. during the second half of 2009 and throughout 2010, economic stimulus initiatives implemented in the united states and worldwide served to stabilize economies and increase industry and consumer confidence. while oil and ngl prices have steadily improved since the beginning of the second quarter of 2009, gas prices have remained volatile throughout 2009 and 2010 as a result of increased gas supply and growing storage levels in the united states, which has offset the growth in demand. the outlook for continuation of the worldwide economic recovery in 2011 is cautiously optimistic but remains uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices, especially north american gas prices, will continue to be volatile during 2011. significant factors that will impact 2011 commodity prices include: the ongoing impact of economic stimulus initiatives in the united states and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic decline; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand of asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into derivative contracts on a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively impact the company liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding the impact to oil, ngl and gas revenues during 2010, 2009 and 2008 from the company derivative price risk management activities and the company open derivative positions at december 31, 2010. the company. the company asset base is anchored by the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the hugoton gas field located in southwest kansas and the west panhandle gas field located in the texas panhandle. complementing these areas, the company has exploration and development opportunities and/or oil and gas production activities in the eagle ford shale and edwards trend areas of south texas, the barnett shale area of north texas and alaska, and internationally in south africa. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, ngl and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. additionally, the company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to united states and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. production operations are principally located domestically in texas, kansas, colorado and alaska, and internationally in south africa. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2010, the company production of 41.9 mmboe was consistent with production during 2009. production, price and cost information with respect to the company properties for 2010, 2009 and 2008 is set forth in item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data. development activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2010, the company drilled 1,033 gross (952 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company interest) of $1.9 billion. 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company proved reserves as of december 31, 2010 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 219 mmbbls of oil, 79 mmbbls of ngls and 991 bcf of gas. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company expected operating cash flows and financial condition. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see item 1a. risk factors exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves below. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2010, 2009 and 2008, the company invested $181.6 million, $88.9 million and $137.6 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company control. see item 1a. risk factors the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. asset divestitures. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. during february 2011, the company sold 100 percent of its share holdings in its tunisian subsidiaries for cash proceeds of $866 million, before normal closing adjustments. as a result of having committed to a plan to sell the tunisian subsidiaries during 2010, the company has classified its tunisian assets and liabilities as assets and liabilities held for sale and the historic results of operations of its tunisian assets as discontinued operations in its accompanying consolidated financial statements. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. see notes m and u of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for specific information regarding the company asset divestitures and discontinued operations, including the 2011 sale of tunisia, during 2010, 2009 and 2008. operations by geographic area the company operates in the oil and gas exploration and production industry and has operations in two geographic areas. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note q of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets. 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company marketing of production general. production from the company properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2010, the company significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (12 percent) and enterprise products partners l.p. (10 percent). the company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. derivative risk management activities. the company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. effective february 1, 2009, the company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its then-existing hedge contracts and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ( mtm ) method of accounting. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a description of the company derivative risk management activities, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, and note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2010, 2009 and 2008, as well as the company open commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2010. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company growth. the company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. many of the company competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price of the company commons stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. environmental matters and regulations. the company operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. these laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. these laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, the united states congress and state legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the company operating costs. the following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which the company business operations are subject. waste handling. the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the auspices of the federal environmental protection agency (the epa ), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under rcra non-hazardous waste provisions. it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. any such change could result in an increase in the company costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and financial position. also, in the course of the company operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ( norm ) may also be generated in connection with the company operations. certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of norm, which may be present in oilfield wastes. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the occupational safety and health administration ( osha ). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla ), also known as the superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. in addition, some of the company properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under the company control. in fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the company. these 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. water discharges and use. the clean water act (the cwa ) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act ( opa ), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. operations associated with the company properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in underground wells. these injection wells are regulated by the safe drinking water act (the sdwa ) and analogous state and local laws. the underground injection well program under the sdwa requires permits from the epa or analogous state agency for the company disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company properties comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the company ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the company operations. in addition, congress has considered legislation that would repeal an exemption in the sdwa for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids near drinking water sources. sponsors of the legislation have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. if enacted, the legislation could result in additional regulatory burdens such as permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and plugging and abandonment requirements. the legislation also proposes requiring the disclosure of chemical constituents used in the fracturing process to state or federal regulatory authorities, who would then make such information publicly available. the availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. the subcommittee on energy and environment of the u.s. house of representatives is examining the practice of hydraulic fracturing in the united states and is gathering information on its potential effects on human health and the environment. the epa also has commenced a study of the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health. in addition, various state and local governments have implemented or are considering increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, requirements for disclosure of chemical constituents, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain environmentally sensitive areas such as watersheds. the water produced by the company cbm operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. in a 2008 case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a cbm competitor in a different cbm basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court held that water produced in connection with the cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. the colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this holding, but there continue to be litigation and uncertainty regarding permitting of 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company produced water withdrawn in connection with cbm activities. the company cbm or other oil and gas operations and the company ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected, and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the company cost of doing business. air emissions. the federal clean air act (the caa ) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. in addition, the epa has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal caa and associated state laws and regulations. permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. in addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the caa. failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. in january 2010, the texas commission on environmental quality (the tceq ) concluded an analysis of air emissions of third-party operators in the barnett shale area in response to reported concerns about high concentrations of benzene in the air near certain drilling sites and gas processing facilities. the tceq investigation revealed elevated levels of benzene and other emissions at certain locations. the agency has continued to monitor emissions and pledged to investigate all complaints about oil and gas activities in the barnett shale area within 12 hours of receipt. partially in response to its investigation, the tceq recently adopted new air emissions limitations and permitting requirements for oil and gas facilities in the state, which will first become applicable to facilities located in the barnett shale area on april 1, 2011. the tceq expects to expand the application of the requirements to facilities in other areas of the state in early 2012. these new requirements could increase the cost and time associated with drilling wells in the barnett shale, or other areas of the state in the future. the agency investigations could lead to additional, more stringent air permitting requirements, increased regulation, and possible enforcement actions against producers, including pioneer, in the barnett shale area. in addition, environmental groups have advocated for increased regulation in the barnett shale area, and at least one state representative has advocated a moratorium on the issuance of drilling permits for new gas wells in the area. any adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing gas drilling and operating activities in the barnett shale or other areas of the state that result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new gas wells for any extended period of time could increase the company costs and/or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and cash flows. health and safety. the company operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act (the osh act ) and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osh act hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company operations. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other osh act and comparable requirements. global warming and climate change. in december 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or ghgs, present an endangerment to human health and welfare because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. these findings by the epa allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the caa based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company ghgs under existing provisions of the caa. the epa recently adopted two sets of rules, which became effective january 2, 2011, that regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the caa, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of ghgs from certain large stationary sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, for emissions occurring after january 1, 2010, as well as certain oil and gas production facilities, on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. in addition, the united states congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. finally, other nations have been seeking to reduce emissions of ghgs pursuant to the united nations framework convention on climate change, also known as the kyoto protocol, an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the united states) have agreed to reduce their emissions of ghgs to below 1990 levels by 2012. depending on the particular jurisdiction in which the company operations are located, it could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for ghg emissions resulting from the company operations. the company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the company current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. for instance, the company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended december 31, 2010. additionally, the company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2011. however, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the company operations, and the company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. moreover, the company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal, state and foreign departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or to limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ). the ferc regulations for interstate gas transmission in some circumstances may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas. as a result of initiatives like ferc order no. 636 ( order 636 ), issued in april 1992, the interstate gas transportation and marketing system has been substantially restructured to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers. the most significant provisions of order 636 require that interstate pipelines provide firm and interruptible transportation service on an open access basis that is equal for all gas supplies. in many instances, the results of order 636 and related initiatives have been to substantially reduce or eliminate the interstate pipelines traditional role as wholesalers of gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation services. in august 2005, the united states congress enacted the energy policy act of 2005 ( epact 2005 ). among other matters, epact 2005 amends the natural gas act ( nga ) to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non-jurisdictional producers such as the company, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by the ferc. the ferc rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of the ferc, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of the ferc, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. epact 2005 also gives the ferc authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the nga up to $1.0 million per day per violation. the anti-manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non-jurisdictional sales or gathering, but does apply to activities of otherwise non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to ferc jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under order 704 (defined below). 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in december 2007, the ferc issued rules ( order 704 ) requiring that any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus during a calendar year annually report such sales and purchases to the ferc. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist the ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. although gas prices are currently unregulated, the united states congress historically has been active in the area of gas regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate gas or gas prices might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by the united states congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company operations. sales of condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. gas gathering. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in foreign, federal and/or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by such changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company business activities. other risks are described in item 1. business competition, markets and regulations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the company revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of lng deliveries to the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, oil prices reached record levels in july 2008 of $145.29 per bbl before declining to $33.87 per bbl in december 2008, while gas prices reached $13.58 per mcf before declining to $5.29 per mcf over the same period. during 2009, oil prices increased from a low of $33.98 per bbl in february to a high of $81.37 per bbl in october, while gas prices declined from $6.07 per mcf in january to $2.51 per mcf in september. during 2010, oil prices fluctuated from a low of $68.01 per bbl in may to a high of $91.51 per bbl in december, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.01 per mcf in january to a low of $3.29 per mcf in october. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. the company derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the company exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes, the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations, or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced revenue and liquidity when prices decline, as occurred in late 2008 for all commodities and during 2009 and 2010 for gas. the failure by counterparties to the company derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material, adverse effect on the company results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company future production being subject to commodity price changes. 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or became costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services and personnel required to complete the company drilling, completion and operating activities. the company future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2011. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to the company estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge will be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. for example, during 2009 and 2008, the company recognized impairment charges of $21.1 million and $89.8 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the company net assets in the uinta/piceance area, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2010, the company carried unproved property costs of $191.1 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company growth. the company growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the impact on the company liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2010, the company carried goodwill of $298.2 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a july 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) future reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) changes in management outlook on commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company market capitalization, (e) changes in the company weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2010, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and 11 treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and all 11 of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. the company overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide drilling, fracture stimulation and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. for example, in 2008, damage caused by hurricanes gustav and ike to a third-party facility that fractionates ngls from a portion of the company production resulted in a portion of the company production being shut in or curtailed from early september to mid-november 2008 while repairs and maintenance to the facility were being completed. the company expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company future drilling plans. the company ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company expectations for success. as such, the company actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission, storage or processing facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the nature of the company assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental matters and regulations above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding the company outstanding debt as of december 31, 2010 and the terms associated therewith. the company ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. the company faces significant competition, and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the company available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop properties. many of the company competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations for additional discussion regarding competition. the company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. the company business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for instance, the tceq recently adopted rules establishing new air emissions limitations and permitting requirements for oil and gas activities in the barnett shale area, which may increase the cost and time associated with drilling wells in that area. in addition, in connection with the company cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state water court holding that water produced in connection with cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing permits, possible uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company business and operations, including that the company may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut in production pending compliance. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations for additional discussion regarding government regulation. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company international operations may be adversely affected by economic, political and other factors. at december 31, 2010, three percent of the company proved reserves were located outside the united states. the success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including: economic and labor conditions; war, terrorist acts and civil disturbances; political instability; loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of actions taken by foreign countries where the company has operations, such as expropriation or nationalization of assets and renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts; changes in taxation policies (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and united states taxes on foreign subsidiaries); laws and policies of the united states and foreign jurisdictions affecting foreign investment, trade and business conduct; and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. in some cases, the market for the company production in foreign countries is limited to some extent. for example, all of the company gas and condensate production from the south coast gas project in south africa is currently committed by contract to a single, government-affiliated gas-to-liquids facility. if this facility ceased to purchase the gas because of an unforeseen event, it might be difficult to find an alternative market for the production, and if such a market were secured, the price received by the company might be less than that provided under its current gas sales contract. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding other risks associated with the company international operations. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows there from. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. the company reports all proved reserves held under concessions utilizing the economic interest method, which excludes the host country share of proved reserves. estimated quantities reported under the economic interest method are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. if costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company proved reserves. the company actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely affected. in addition, the company forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the company oil and gas operations summarized in this item 1a. risk factors occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. the company may be unable to complete its plans to repurchase its common stock. the board of directors (the board ) approves share repurchase programs and sets limits on the price per share at which the company common stock can be repurchased. from time to time, the company may not be permitted to repurchase its stock during certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading blackouts. additionally, business conditions and availability of capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or canceled. as a result, there can be no assurance that additional repurchase programs will be commenced and, if so, that they will be completed. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of a publicly-traded limited partnership. as such, the subsidiary operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of pioneer southwest energy partners l.p., a publicly-traded limited partnership formed by the company to own, develop and acquire oil and gas assets in its area of operations. as general partner, the subsidiary may be deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations to the partnership. activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to others typically involve a higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interest is found to exist. any such liability may be material. 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company a failure by purchasers of the company production to perform their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company results of operation. while the credit markets, the availability of credit and the equity markets have improved during 2009 and 2010, the economic outlook for 2011 remains uncertain. to the extent that purchasers of the company production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. the company may not be able to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under its current credit facility in the event of a deterioration of the credit and capital markets, which could hinder or prevent the company from meeting its future capital needs. during 2009 and 2010, access to the debt and equity capital markets improved. however, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets was higher than historical levels as many lenders and institutional investors increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers. if these events were to recur, the company could be unable to obtain adequate funding under its current credit facility because (i) the company lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount the company may borrow under its current credit facility could be reduced as a result of lower oil, ngl or gas prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements or regulations, or for other reasons. for example, the company credit facility requires that the company maintain a specified ratio of the net present value of the company oil and gas properties to total debt, with the variables on which the calculation of net present value is based (including assumed commodity prices and discount rates) being subject to adjustment by the lenders. due to these factors, the company cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the company may be unable to implement its business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company production, revenues and results of operations. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse affect on the company results of operations. concerns over the worldwide economic outlook, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and the united states mortgage and real estate markets contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. these factors, combined with volatile commodity prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment resulted in a worldwide recession during the second half of 2008 and most of 2009. while the worldwide economic outlook has improved, concerns about global economic growth could have a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company net revenue and profitability. certain u.s. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. the fiscal year 2012 budget proposed by the president recommends elimination of certain key u.s. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies, and legislation has been introduced in congress which would implement many of these proposals. these changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company geophysical expenditures. it is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. the passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in u.s. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect the value of an investment in the company common stock. the recent adoption of climate change legislation by the united states congress or regulation by the epa could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces. during december 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of ghgs present an endangerment to human health and welfare because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. these findings by the epa allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the caa. the epa recently adopted two sets of rules, which became effective january 2, 2011, that regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the caa, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of ghgs from certain large stationary sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, for emissions occurring after january 1, 2010, as well as certain oil and gas production facilities, on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. in addition, the united states congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations. the recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the united states congress could have an adverse effect on the company ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the united states congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the new legislation, known as the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the act ), was signed into law by the president on july 21, 2010 and requires the commodities futures trading commission (the cftc ) and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. in its rulemaking under the act, the cftc has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. it is not possible at this time to predict when the cftc will finalize these regulations. the financial reform legislation may also require the company to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with its derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to the company is uncertain at this time. the financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to the 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company company derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. the new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect the company available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters, reduce the company ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase the company exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, the company results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the company ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on the company, its financial condition, and its results of operations. federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. the epa, however, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the safe drinking water act underground injection control program. while the epa has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the epa recent decision. at the same time, the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the u.s. house of representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. legislation has been introduced before congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. in addition, various state and local governments have implemented or are considering increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, requirements for disclosure of chemical constituents, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain environmentally sensitive areas such as watersheds. if new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for the company to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. in addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the epa, the company fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and gas that the company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves. provisions of the company charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company common stock. provisions in the company certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. the company has also adopted a shareholder rights plan. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative disclosures 64 qualitative disclosures 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the united states and south africa. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company executive offices are located at 5205 n. o connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas; london, england and capetown, south africa. at december 31, 2010, the company had 2,248 employees, 1,399 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company interests in long-lived spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford, barnett shale combo, hugoton and west panhandle fields; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 90 percent of the company proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2010. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. for several years preceding 2008, the petroleum industry was generally characterized by volatile, but upward trending, oil, ngl and gas commodity prices. during the first half of 2008, north american gas prices increased as a result of reduced inventory levels, a perceived shortage of north american gas supply and anticipation that the united states would become a larger importer of lng, which was then selling in the world market at a substantial premium to united states gas prices. however, by mid-year 2008, it became apparent that capital investments in gas drilling and discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays would cause domestic gas supply to exceed existing united states gas demand. beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing throughout most of 2009, the united states and other industrialized countries experienced a significant economic slowdown, which 6 table of contents led to a substantial decline in worldwide energy demand. declining energy demand due to the economic slowdown, together with the increased supply of united states gas, resulted in sharp declines in oil, ngl and north american gas prices during the second half of 2008 and first half of 2009. during the second half of 2009 and throughout 2010, economic stimulus initiatives implemented in the united states and worldwide served to stabilize economies and increase industry and consumer confidence. while oil and ngl prices have steadily improved since the beginning of the second quarter of 2009, gas prices have remained volatile throughout 2009 and 2010 as a result of increased gas supply and growing storage levels in the united states, which has offset the growth in demand. the outlook for continuation of the worldwide economic recovery in 2011 is cautiously optimistic but remains uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices, especially north american gas prices, will continue to be volatile during 2011. significant factors that will impact 2011 commodity prices include: the ongoing impact of economic stimulus initiatives in the united states and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic decline; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand of asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american gas supply and demand fundamentals. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into derivative contracts on a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively impact the company liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note q of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2010, the company significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (12 percent) and enterprise products partners l.p. (10 percent). the company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. derivative risk management activities. the company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. effective february 1, 2009, the company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its then-existing hedge contracts and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ( mtm ) method of accounting. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a description of the company derivative risk management activities, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, and note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the company revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of lng deliveries to the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, oil prices reached record levels in july 2008 of $145.29 per bbl before declining to $33.87 per bbl in december 2008, while gas prices reached $13.58 per mcf before declining to $5.29 per mcf over the same period. during 2009, oil prices increased from a low of $33.98 per bbl in february to a high of $81.37 per bbl in october, while gas prices declined from $6.07 per mcf in january to $2.51 per mcf in september. during 2010, oil prices fluctuated from a low of $68.01 per bbl in may to a high of $91.51 per bbl in december, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.01 per mcf in january to a low of $3.29 per mcf in october. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. the company derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the company exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes, the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations, or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced revenue and liquidity when prices decline, as occurred in late 2008 for all commodities and during 2009 and 2010 for gas. the failure by counterparties to the company derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material, adverse effect on the company results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company future production being subject to commodity price changes. 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or became costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services and personnel required to complete the company drilling, completion and operating activities. the company future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2011. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to the company estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge will be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. for example, during 2009 and 2008, the company recognized impairment charges of $21.1 million and $89.8 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the company net assets in the uinta/piceance area, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2010, the company carried unproved property costs of $191.1 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company growth. the company growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the impact on the company liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2010, the company carried goodwill of $298.2 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a july 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) future reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) changes in management outlook on commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company market capitalization, (e) changes in the company weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. if the fair value of the reporting unit net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2010, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and 11 treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and all 11 of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. the company overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide drilling, fracture stimulation and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. for example, in 2008, damage caused by hurricanes gustav and ike to a third-party facility that fractionates ngls from a portion of the company production resulted in a portion of the company production being shut in or curtailed from early september to mid-november 2008 while repairs and maintenance to the facility were being completed. the company expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company future drilling plans. the company ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company expectations for success. as such, the company actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission, storage or processing facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the nature of the company assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. the oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental matters and regulations above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note b of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and notes b and i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data for information about the company derivative contracts and associated accounting methods. the company also recognized $138.9 million of net hurricane activity gains during 2010, primarily associated with east cameron 322 insurance recoveries, as compared to $17.3 million of net hurricane activity charges during 2009. see note t of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for more information about the east cameron 322 project. (c) during february 2011, the company sold 100 percent of its share holdings in its tunisian subsidiaries, pursuant to a plan committed to during 2010. in accordance with gaap, the company has classified the tunisia results of operations as discontinued operations, rather than a component of continuing operations. during 2010, the company received $35.3 million of interest on excess royalties paid on oil and gas production from its deepwater gulf of mexico properties during the period from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2005. during 2009, the company recorded $119.3 million of pretax income for the recovery of the excess royalties previously mentioned and a $17.5 million pretax gain, primarily from the sale of substantially all of its gulf of mexico shelf properties. the company gulf of mexico shelf and deepwater properties were sold effective july 1, 2009 and january 1, 2006, respectively. the results of operations of these properties, and certain other properties sold during the periods presented are classified as discontinued operations in accordance with gaap. see notes b and u of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data for more information about the company discontinued operations. 44 table of contents pioneer natural resources company item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial and operating performance pioneer financial and operating performance for 2010 included the following highlights: earnings attributable to common stockholders was $605.2 million ($5.08 per diluted share), as compared to a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $52.1 million ($0.46 per diluted share) in 2009. the increase in earnings attributable to common stockholders is primarily due to: a $343.6 million pretax increase in oil and gas revenues as a result of commodity price increases; a $644.0 million pretax increase in net derivative gains, primarily due to decreases in future commodity prices, principally gas prices, relative to the contract prices in the company derivative position portfolio at december 31, 2010; a $156.2 million increase in net hurricane activity gains during 2010, primarily attributable to east cameron 322 reclamation and abandonment insurance recoveries; and a $54.8 million pretax decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization ( dd&amp;a ) expense, primarily due to increases in proved reserves from the company 2010 capital program and positive price revisions as a result of higher average commodity prices during 2010 as compared to 2009; partially offset by: a $33.8 million increase in general and administrative expenses due to increases in performance-related compensation expenses and staffing increases to support the company increased activity level; and a $13.8 million increase in production and ad valorem taxes due to the increase in commodity prices. daily sales volumes from continuing operations increased on a boe basis by one percent to 109,399 boepd during 2010, as compared to 108,071 boepd during 2009. average reported oil, ngl and gas prices from continuing operations increased during 2010 to $90.29 per bbl, $38.14 per bbl and $4.34 per mcf, respectively, as compared to respective prices of $75.45 per bbl, $29.76 per bbl and $3.97 per mcf during 2009. average oil and gas production costs and total ad valorem and production taxes per boe from continuing operations increased during 2010 to $9.17 and $2.81, respectively, as compared to respective per boe costs of $8.90 and $2.49 during 2009, primarily as a result of inflation of well servicing costs, increased workover expenditures and higher commodity prices. net cash provided by operating activities increased by $742.0 million, or 137 percent, to $1.3 billion for 2010, as compared to $543.1 million in 2009, primarily due to the increase in commodity prices, an increase in cash derivative gains and working capital changes. long-term debt was reduced by $159.3 million and cash balances increased by $83.8 million during 2010. during june 2010, the company entered into an eagle ford shale joint venture transaction. pursuant to the transaction, the company entered into a purchase and sale agreement to sell 45 percent of its eagle ford shale proved and unproved oil and gas properties to an unaffiliated third party for $212.0 million of cash proceeds, including normal closing adjustments. under the terms of the transaction, the purchaser is also paying 75 percent (up to $886.8 million) of the company defined exploration, drilling and completion costs attributable to the eagle ford shale assets during the six years ending on july 1, 2016, subject to extension. the company current expectations are that the purchaser obligation to pay 75 percent of the company defined exploration, drilling and completion costs attributable to eagle ford shale assets will be satisfied by mid-2013. in conjunction with the eagle ford shale joint venture transaction, the company also sold a 49.9 percent member interest in its subsidiary efs midstream llc ( efs midstream ) to the purchaser for $46.4 million of cash proceeds and deferred a $46.2 million associated net gain. after the sale, the company no longer has voting control of efs midstream. the company no longer consolidates the financial statements of efs midstream and is accounting for its investment in the venture under the equity method. 45 table of contents pioneer natural resources company during december 2010, the company committed to a plan to sell its tunisian assets and liabilities and during february 2011 sold 100 percent of the company share holdings in its tunisian subsidiaries for $866 million, before normal closing adjustments. accordingly, the company has classified its tunisian assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale as of december 31, 2010, and has classified its historic tunisian revenues and expenses as income from discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2010, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rates. the fair values of the company derivative contracts are determined based on the company valuation models and applications. during 2010, the company changed its valuation inputs for ngl derivative contracts and used component price inputs presently available from independent active market quoted sources. as of december 31, 2009, the company ngl component price inputs were obtained from independent brokers active in buying and selling ngl derivative contracts. as of december 31, 2010, the company was a party to commodity swap contracts, interest rate swap contracts, commodity collar contracts and commodity collar contracts with short put options. see note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included inrisk factors 16 risk factors, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states and south africa. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company executive offices are located at 5205 n. o connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas and capetown, south africa. at december 31, 2011, the company had 3,304 employees, 2,282 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company interests in the long-lived spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford shale, barnett shale combo, hugoton and west panhandle fields; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 93 percent of the company proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2011. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. oil and ngl prices have steadily improved since the beginning of 2009, while gas prices have remained volatile and have generally trended lower since 2009. the decline in gas prices is primarily a result of growing gas production associated with discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal 2011/2012 winter, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the united states. 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company during 2009, 2010 and 2011, economic stimulus initiatives implemented in the united states and worldwide served to stabilize the united states and certain other economies in the world with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european union (or eurozone ) nations, continue to face economic struggles. the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery is cautiously optimistic, but remains uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices, especially north american gas prices, will continue to be volatile during 2012. significant factors that will impact 2012 commodity prices include: the ongoing impact of economic stimulus initiatives in the united states and worldwide and continuing economic struggles in eurozone nations economies; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american ngl and gas supply and demand fundamentals. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively impact the company liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and notes i and j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2011, 2010 and 2009 from the company derivative price risk management activities and the company open derivative positions as of december 31, 2011. the company. the company growth plan is anchored primarily by drilling in the spraberry oil field located in west texas, the liquid-rich eagle ford shale field located in south texas, the liquid-rich barnett shale combo field in north texas and, to a lesser extent, alaska. complementing these growth areas, the company has oil and gas production activities and development opportunities in the raton gas field located in southern colorado, the hugoton gas and liquid field located in southwest kansas, the west panhandle gas and liquid field located in the texas panhandle and the edwards gas field located in south texas. combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, ngl and gas, and that are also well balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. additionally, the company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that are necessary to allow pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. the company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to united states and south africa subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. the company continuing operations are principally located in the united states in the states of texas, kansas, colorado and alaska. production. the company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, ngls and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. for the year ended december 31, 2011, the company production from continuing operations, excluding field fuel usage, of 44.0 mmboe represented a 16 percent increase over production from continuing operations during 2010. production, price and cost information with respect to the company properties for 2011, 2010 and 2009 is set forth in item 2. properties selected oil and gas information production, price and cost data. development activities. the company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. during the three years ended december 31, 2011, the company drilled 1,236 gross (1,112 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the company interest) of $2.5 billion. the company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. the company proved reserves as of december 31, 2011 include proved 7 table of contents pioneer natural resources company undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 259.0 mmbbls of oil, 98.7 mmbbls of ngls and 850.8 bcf of gas. the company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. the timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the company expected operating cash flows and financial condition. exploratory activities. the company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities. exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. see item 1a. risk factors exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves below. integrated services. the company continues to expand its integrated services to control drilling costs and support the execution of its accelerating drilling program. the company has 15 owned drilling rigs operating in the spraberry field, and at the end of 2011, had company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling 250,000 horsepower supporting drilling operations in the spraberry, eagle ford shale and barnett shale combo areas. the company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. acquisition activities. the company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. in addition, the company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. during 2011, 2010 and 2009, the company spent $131.9 million, $181.6 million and $88.9 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities. the company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. the success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the company control. see item 1a. risk factors the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. asset divestitures and discontinued operations. the company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. while the company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the company objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. during december 2011, the company committed to a plan to divest its south africa assets ( pioneer south africa ). the plan is expected to result in the sale of pioneer south africa assets during 2012. in accordance with gaap, the company has classified its south africa assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the company accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2011, and has recast pioneer south africa results of operations as income from discontinued operations, net of tax in the company accompanying consolidated statements of operations. during february 2011, the company completed the sale of its share holdings in pioneer natural resources tunisia ltd. and pioneer natural resources anaguid ltd. (referred to in the aggregate as pioneer tunisia ) for cash proceeds of $853.6 million, including normal closing adjustments. as a result of having committed to a plan to sell the tunisian subsidiaries during 2010, the company classified its tunisian assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the company accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2010, and recorded the historical results of operations of its tunisian assets as income from discontinued operations, net of tax in the company accompanying consolidated statements of operations. the company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to 8 table of contents pioneer natural resources company improve profitability. see notes m and u of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for specific information regarding the company asset divestitures and discontinued operations, including the 2011 sale of pioneer tunisia and planned sale of pioneer south africa. marketing of production general. production from the company properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. sales prices for oil, ngl and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2011, the company significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (16 percent), occidental energy marketing inc. (14 percent) and enterprise products partners l.p. (12 percent). the company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. derivative risk management activities. the company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. the company also utilizes commodity swap contracts to reduce price volatility on the fuel that the company drilling rigs and fracture stimulation fleets consume. effective february 1, 2009, the company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its then-existing hedge contracts and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ( mtm ) method of accounting. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a description of the company derivative risk management activities, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, and note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, ngl and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2011, 2010 and 2009, as well as the company open commodity derivative positions at december 31, 2011. competition, markets and regulations competition. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. a large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the company growth. the company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. the principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. many of the company competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the company. markets. the company ability to produce and market oil, ngls and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the company control. the effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. although the company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. securities regulations. enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the sec and the nyse. this regulatory oversight imposes on the company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the sec do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the sec could subject the company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. failure to comply with the rules of the nyse could result in the de-listing of the company common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price of the company common stock. compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. 9 table of contents pioneer natural resources company environmental matters and regulations. the company operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. these laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. these laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. additionally, the united states congress and state legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the company operating costs. the following is a summary of some of the laws, rules and regulations to which the company business operations are or may be subject. waste handling. the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. under the auspices of the federal environmental protection agency (the epa ), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of rcra, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under rcra non-hazardous waste provisions. it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. any such change could result in an increase in the company costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and financial position. also, in the course of the company operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials ( norm ) may also be generated in connection with the company operations. certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of norm, which may be present in oilfield wastes. norm is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. in addition, norm handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the occupational safety and health administration ( osha ). these state and osha regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of norm waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing norm; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with norm contamination. comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla ), also known as the superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. in addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 10 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. although the company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the company, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. in addition, some of the company properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under the company control. in fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the company. these properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to cercla, rcra and analogous state laws. under such laws, the company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. water discharges and use. the clean water act (the cwa ) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the united states. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the epa or an analogous state agency. the cwa and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the cwa and analogous state laws and regulations. the primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the oil pollution act ( opa ), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. opa applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the united states. under opa, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. operations associated with the company properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in underground wells. these injection wells are regulated by the safe drinking water act (the sdwa ) and analogous state and local laws. the underground injection well program under the sdwa requires permits from the epa or analogous state agency for the company disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. currently, the company believes that disposal well operations on the company properties comply with all applicable requirements under the sdwa. however, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the company ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the company operations. in addition, in response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the disposal of oil and gas-related wastewaters, federal and state agencies have begun investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of such injection wells. the u.s. geological survey is advising the epa regarding potential seismic hazards associated with these types of underground injection wells. it is possible that federal or state agencies will seek to regulate more stringently the underground injection of oil and gas wastewaters as a result of these events. nevertheless, the company is not aware of any imminent actions by federal or state agencies that would affect its use or operation of underground injection wells. the company also routinely uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. the epa, however, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels under the sdwa underground injection control program. in addition, legislation has been introduced before the united states congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. at the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. the company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where the 11 table of contents pioneer natural resources company company operates, the company could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. in addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the united states house of representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. moreover, the epa is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. other governmental agencies, including the u.s. department of energy and the u.s. department of the interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. these ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa or other regulatory mechanisms. to the company knowledge, there have been no citations, suits or contamination of potable drinking water arising from its fracturing operations. the company does not have insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations; however, the company believes its existing insurance policies would cover third-party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses, subject to the terms of such policies. the water produced by the company cbm operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. for example, in connection with the company cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. in a 2008 case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a cbm competitor in a different cbm basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court held that water produced in connection with the cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. the colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this ruling, but there continue to be litigation and uncertainty regarding permitting of produced water withdrawn in connection with cbm activities. the company cbm or other oil and gas operations and the company ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected, and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the company cost of doing business. air emissions. the federal clean air act (the caa ) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. in addition, the epa has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the epa. federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the caa and associated state laws and regulations. permits and related compliance obligations under the caa, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require the company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. in addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the caa. failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. 12 table of contents pioneer natural resources company in july 2011, the epa issued proposed rules that would subject all oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the new source performance standards ( nsps ) and national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants programs. the epa proposed rules also include nsps standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells. these standards include the reduced emission completion techniques developed in the epa natural gas star program along with the flaring of gas. if finalized, these rules could require a number of modifications to the company operations, including the installation of new equipment. compliance with such rules could result in significant new costs to the company and make it more costly and time-consuming to complete oil and gas wells. any delay or decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells could have a material adverse effect on the company liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. moreover, in response to reported concerns about high concentrations of benzene in the air near certain drilling sites and gas processing facilities in the barnett shale area, the texas commission on environmental quality (the tceq ) adopted new air emissions limitations and permitting requirements for oil and gas facilities in the state, which are applicable to facilities located in the barnett shale area. the tceq may expand the application of the requirements to facilities in other areas of the state in 2012. these new requirements could increase the cost and time associated with drilling wells in the barnett shale or other areas of the state in the future. the agency investigations could lead to additional, more stringent air permitting requirements, increased regulation, and possible enforcement actions against producers, including pioneer, in the barnett shale area. any adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing gas drilling and operating activities in the barnett shale or other areas of the state that result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new gas wells for any extended period of time could increase the company costs and/or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations and cash flows. endangered species. the federal endangered species act (the esa ) and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened or endangered species. some of the company operations are conducted in areas where protected species and/or their habitats are known to exist. in these areas, the company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the company operations could have an adverse effect on the species. it is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. the presence of a protected species in areas where the company performs activities could result in increased costs of or limitations on the company ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the company business. the united states fish and wildlife service has proposed listing the dunes sagebrush lizard as endangered under the esa and expects to make a final determination on the listing by june 2012. some of the company operations in the permian basin are located in or near areas that may potentially be designated as dunes sagebrush lizard habitat. if the lizard is classified as an endangered species, the company operations in any area that is designated as the lizard habitat may be limited, delayed or, in some circumstances, prohibited, and the company may be required to comply with expensive mitigation measures intended to protect the lizard and its habitat. moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the u.s. district court for the district of columbia in september 2011, the u.s. fish and wildlife service is required to consider listing more than 250 species as endangered under the esa and issue decisions with respect to the 250 candidate species over the next several years. the designation of previously unprotected species in areas where the company operates as threatened or endangered could cause the company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the company exploration and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the company ability to develop and produce its reserves. health and safety. the company operations are subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act (the osh act ) and comparable state statutes. these laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. the osh act hazard communication standard, epa community right-to-know regulations under title iii of cercla and similar state statues require that the company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the company operations. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other osh act and comparable requirements. global warming and climate change. in december 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or ghgs, present an endangerment to public 13 table of contents pioneer natural resources company health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. these findings by the epa allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the caa. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the caa. the epa adopted two sets of rules that regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the caa, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of ghgs from certain large stationary sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, of greenhouse gas emissions from specified greenhouse gas emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, as well as certain oil and gas production facilities. the company is monitoring ghg emissions from its operations in accordance with the ghg emissions reporting rule and believes its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. in addition, the united states congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. finally, other nations have been seeking to reduce emissions of ghgs pursuant to the united nations framework convention on climate change, also known as the kyoto protocol, an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the united states) have agreed to reduce their emissions of ghgs. depending on the particular jurisdiction in which the company operations are located, it could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for ghg emissions resulting from the company operations. the company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the company current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. for instance, the company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended december 31, 2011. additionally, the company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2012. however, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the company operations, and the company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. moreover, the company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. other regulation of the oil and gas industry. the oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. also, numerous federal, state and foreign departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the company cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, these burdens generally do not affect the company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. development and production. development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. these types of regulation include requiring permits for the 14 table of contents pioneer natural resources company drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the company operates, also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. state laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. in some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the company interest in the unitized properties. in addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. these laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the company can produce from the company wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the company can drill. moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, ngl and gas within its jurisdiction. states do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. the effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the company wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the company can drill. regulation of transportation and sale of gas. the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies, including the railroad commission of texas (the trrc ). the interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ). since 1985, ferc has endeavored to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open and non-discriminatory basis. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 ( epact 2005 ) it is unlawful for any entity, including producers such as the company, that are otherwise not subject to ferc jurisdiction under the natural gas act (the nga ) to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by ferc, in contravention of rules prescribed by ferc. ferc rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of ferc, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. epact 2005 also gives ferc authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the nga up to $1.0 million per day per violation. the anti-manipulation rule applies to activities of otherwise non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to ferc jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under order 704 (defined below). in december 2007, ferc issued rules ( order 704 ) requiring that any market participant, including a producer such as the company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million mmbtus during a calendar year annually report such sales and purchases to ferc. order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist ferc in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. gas gathering. section 1(b) of the nga exempts gas gathering facilities from ferc jurisdiction. the company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests ferc has used to establish a pipeline system status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. there is, however, no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. moreover, the distinction between ferc-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and 15 table of contents pioneer natural resources company regulation of some of the company gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by ferc and the courts. thus, the company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. while the company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering services. to the extent that changes in foreign, federal and/or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the company also may be affected by such changes. accordingly, the company does not anticipate that the company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. regulation of transportation and sale of oil and ngls . the availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of oil and ngls. foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to pipeline transportation of oil and ngls. intrastate pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies, including the trrc. interstate common carrier pipeline operations are subject to rate regulation by ferc under the interstate commerce act (the ica ). the ica requires that tariff rates for petroleum pipelines, which include both oil pipelines and refined products pipelines, be just and reasonable and non-discriminatory. energy commodity prices . sales prices of gas, oil, condensate and ngls are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the united states congress historically has been active in their regulation. the company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas, or the prices charged for these commodities might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by the united states congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the company operations. transportation of hazardous materials . the federal department of transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. the company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the company or its operations. the company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the company transportation of hazardous materials. item 1a. risk factors the nature of the business activities conducted by the company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. the following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the company business activities. other risks are described in item 1. business competition, markets and regulations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the company revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices; gas inventory levels in the united states; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the effect of lng deliveries to the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, during 2011, oil prices fluctuated from a high of $113.93 per bbl in april to a low of $75.67 per bbl in october, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $4.85 per mcf in june to a low of $2.99 per mcf in december. during 2010, oil prices fluctuated from a low of $68.01 per bbl in may to a high of $91.51 per bbl in december, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.01 per mcf in january to a low of $3.29 per mcf in october. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. the company derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the company exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. the failure by counterparties to the company derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company future production being subject to commodity price changes. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services and personnel required to complete the company drilling, completion and operating activities. the company future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2012. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. for example, during 2011 and 2009, the company recognized impairment charges of $354.4 million and $21.1 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the company edwards and austin chalk gas fields in south texas and the uinta/piceance area in colorado, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2011, the company carried unproved property costs of $235.5 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company growth. the company growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the impact on the company liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2011, the company carried goodwill of $298.1 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a july 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) management outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company market capitalization, (e) changes in the company weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes related to the company united states reporting unit. if the fair value of the reporting unit net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2011, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and ten treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and all ten of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants in to the surface and subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. the company overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide drilling, fracture stimulation and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company future drilling plans. the company ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company expectations for success. as such, the company actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transportation, storage and processing facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the nature of the company assets and operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. the oil and gas business involves the production, handling, sale and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental matters and regulations above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for information regarding the company outstanding debt as of december 31, 2011 and the terms associated therewith. the company ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the company debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. 21 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company faces significant competition, and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the company available resources. the oil and gas industry is highly competitive. the company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, ngl and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop properties. many of the company competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the company. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations for additional discussion regarding competition. the company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. the company business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for instance, the tceq recently adopted rules establishing new air emissions limitations and permitting requirements for oil and gas activities in the barnett shale area, which may increase the cost and time associated with drilling wells in that area. in addition, in connection with the company cbm operations in the raton basin in colorado, the colorado supreme court affirmed a state water court holding that water produced in connection with cbm operations should be subject to state water-use regulations, including regulations requiring permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing permits, possible uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. there can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the company business and operations, including that the company may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut in production pending compliance. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations for additional discussion regarding government regulation. the company sales of oil, gas and ngls, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the company to potential regulatory risks. ferc, the federal trade commission and the commodity futures trading commission (the cftc ) hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the company business. these agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to the company physical sales of oil, gas and ngls, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the company financial condition or results of operations. estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. the actual quantities and net cash flows of the company proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. the estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. 22 table of contents pioneer natural resources company because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. the company actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. as required by the sec, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, ngls and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. the company reports all proved reserves held under concessions utilizing the economic interest method, which excludes the host country share of proved reserves. estimated quantities reported under the economic interest method are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. if costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the sec. in general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. in addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the company or the oil and gas industry in general. therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or standardized measure in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the company proved reserves. the company actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. from time to time, the company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. these forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely affected. in addition, the company forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the company oil and gas operations summarized in this item 1a. risk factors occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of a publicly-traded limited partnership. as such, the subsidiary operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations. a subsidiary of the company acts as the general partner of pioneer southwest, a publicly-traded limited partnership formed by the company to own, develop and acquire oil and gas assets in its area of operations. as general partner, the subsidiary may be deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations to pioneer southwest. 23 table of contents pioneer natural resources company activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to others typically involve a higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interest is found to exist. any such liability may be material. the tax treatment of pioneer southwest depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as its not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. if the internal revenue service (the irs ) were to treat pioneer southwest as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or pioneer southwest becomes subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then the value of the company investment in pioneer southwest would be substantially reduced . the company currently owns a 52.4% limited partner interest and a 0.1% general partner interest in pioneer southwest. the value of the company investment in pioneer southwest depends largely on its being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. a publicly traded partnership may be treated as a corporation for united states federal income tax purposes unless 90 percent or more of its gross income for every year is qualifying income under section 7704 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. pioneer southwest has not requested and does not plan to request a ruling from the irs with respect to its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. a change in pioneer southwest business could cause it to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. in addition, a change in current law may cause pioneer southwest to be treated as a corporation for such purposes. for example, members of united states congress have from time to time considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. moreover, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. if pioneer southwest were subject to federal income tax as a corporation or any state was to impose a tax upon pioneer southwest, its cash available to pay distributions would be reduced. therefore, treatment of pioneer southwest as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to pioneer southwest unitholders, including the company, and would likely cause a substantial reduction in the value of the company investment in pioneer southwest. pioneer southwest partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the effect of that law on pioneer southwest. the company business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as an oil and gas producer, the company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the company facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. the potential for such security threats has subjected the company operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the company business. in particular, the company implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the company information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. if any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the company operations and could have a material adverse effect on the company reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. these events could damage the company reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. 24 table of contents pioneer natural resources company a failure by purchasers of the company production to perform their obligations to the company could require the company to recognize a pre-tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the company results of operation. while the credit markets, the availability of credit and the equity markets have improved during 2010 and 2011, the economic outlook for 2012 remains uncertain. to the extent that purchasers of the company production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. if for any reason the company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the company production were uncollectible, the company would recognize a pre-tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. concerns over the worldwide economic outlook, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and the united states mortgage and real estate markets have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. these factors, combined with volatile commodity prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment resulted in a worldwide recession. while the worldwide economic outlook seems to be improving, concerns about global economic growth or government debt in the eurozone or the united states could have a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. if the economic climate in the united states or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the company could sell its oil, ngls and gas and ultimately decrease the company net revenue and profitability. certain united states federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. in recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to united states tax laws, including elimination of certain key united states federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. such tax legislation changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. it is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. the passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in united states federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect the value of an investment in the company common stock. the adoption of climate change legislation by the united states congress or regulation by the epa could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, ngls and gas the company produces. during december 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa adopted two sets of rules that regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the caa, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of ghgs from certain large stationary sources. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, of greenhouse gas emissions from specified greenhouse gas emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries as well as certain oil and gas production facilities. the company is monitoring ghg emissions from its operations in accordance with the ghg emissions reporting rule and believes that its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. in addition, the united states congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. 25 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require the company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the company produces. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on the company business, financial condition and results of operations. finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations. the recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the united states congress could have an adverse effect on the company ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. the united states congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the company, that participate in that market. the legislation, known as the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the act ), was signed into law by the president in july 2010 and requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations to implement the new legislation. in december 2011, the cftc extended temporary exemptive relief from certain regulations applicable to swaps until no later than july 16, 2012. in its rulemaking under the act, the cftc has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. certain bona fide derivative transactions would be exempt from these position limits. it is not possible at this time to predict when the cftc will make these regulations effective. the financial reform legislation may also require the company to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with its derivatives activities, although the application of those provisions to the company is uncertain at this time. the financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to the company derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. the legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect the company available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the company encounters, reduce the company ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase the company exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. if the company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, the company results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the company ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. the company revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on the company, its financial condition and its results of operations. federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. the company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of its drilling and completion programs. the process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. the epa, however, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesels under the sdwa underground injection control program. moreover, the epa issued proposed rules in july 2011 that would subject oil and gas production activities to regulation under the nsps air emissions program, including, among other things, the implementation of standards for reduced emission completion techniques to be used during hydraulic fracturing activities. in addition, legislation has been introduced before the united states congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa and to require disclosure of the 26 table of contents pioneer natural resources company chemicals used in the fracturing process. at the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where the company operates, it could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. in addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. the white house council on environmental quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the united states house of representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. the epa has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. moreover, the epa is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. other governmental agencies, including the u.s. department of energy and the u.s. department of the interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. these ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa or other regulatory mechanisms. provisions of the company charter documents and delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company common stock. provisions in the company certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the company or a merger in which the company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the company board of directors and management. in addition, because the company is incorporated in delaware, it is governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions could discourage an acquisition of the company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the company common stock. the company is growing production in areas of high industry activity, which may impact its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs. the company strategy is to expand drilling activity in areas in which industry activity has increased rapidly, particularly in the spraberry field area, the eagle ford shale play in south texas and the barnett shale combo play in north texas. as a result, demand for personnel, equipment, hydraulic fracturing services, proppant for fracture stimulation operations, water and other services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas has increased, as has the costs for those items. a delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the company to complete its development activities as planned could result in a rate of oil and gas production below the rate forecasted, and significant increases in costs would impact the company profitability. laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the company operations and cause it to incur substantial costs. various state and federal statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. these statutes include the esa, the migratory bird treaty act, the cwa and cercla. the united states fish and wildlife service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. a critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. if harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities, or at times private parties, may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and may seek damages and, in some cases, criminal penalties. the united states fish and wildlife service has proposed listing the dunes sagebrush lizard as endangered under the esa and expects to make a final determination on the listing by june 2012. some of the company operations in the permian basin are located in or near areas that may potentially be designated as dunes sagebrush lizard habitat. if the lizard is 27 table of contents pioneer natural resources company classified as an endangered species, the company operations in any area that is designated as the lizard habitat may be limited, delayed or, in some circumstances, prohibited, and the company may be required to comply with expensive mitigation measures intended to protect the lizard and its habitat. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative disclosures 64 qualitative disclosures 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. the company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 table of contents pioneer natural resources company part i item 1. business general pioneer is a delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the nyse. the company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the united states and south africa. pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. the company executive offices are located at 5205 n. o connor blvd., suite 200, irving, texas 75039. the company telephone number is (972) 444-9001. the company maintains other offices in anchorage, alaska; denver, colorado; midland, texas and capetown, south africa. at december 31, 2011, the company had 3,304 employees, 2,282 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. available information pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec under the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the public may read and copy any materials that pioneer files with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. also, the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including pioneer, that file electronically with the sec. the public can obtain any documents that pioneer files with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . the company also makes available free of charge through its internet website ( www.pxd.com ) its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the sec. mission and strategies the company mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize pioneer long-term profitability and net asset value. the strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. these strategies are anchored by the company interests in the long-lived spraberry oil field; the liquid-rich eagle ford shale, barnett shale combo, hugoton and west panhandle fields; and the raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. underlying these fields are approximately 93 percent of the company proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2011. business activities the company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. pioneer purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. in so doing, the company sells homogenous oil, ngl and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the company competitors. competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. petroleum industry. oil and ngl prices have steadily improved since the beginning of 2009, while gas prices have remained volatile and have generally trended lower since 2009. the decline in gas prices is primarily a result of growing gas production associated with discoveries of significant gas reserves in united states shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal 2011/2012 winter, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the united states. 6 table of contents pioneer natural resources company during 2009, 2010 and 2011, economic stimulus initiatives implemented in the united states and worldwide served to stabilize the united states and certain other economies in the world with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. however, other economies, such as those of certain european union (or eurozone ) nations, continue to face economic struggles. the outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery is cautiously optimistic, but remains uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. as a result, the company believes it is likely that commodity prices, especially north american gas prices, will continue to be volatile during 2012. significant factors that will impact 2012 commodity prices include: the ongoing impact of economic stimulus initiatives in the united states and worldwide and continuing economic struggles in eurozone nations economies; political and economic developments in north africa and the middle east; demand from asian and european markets; the extent to which members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall north american ngl and gas supply and demand fundamentals. pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the company net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. although the company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. as a result, the company internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. a sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively impact the company liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and notes i and j of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional discussion of operations and price risk. significant purchasers. during 2011, the company significant purchasers of oil, ngls and gas were plains marketing lp (16 percent), occidental energy marketing inc. (14 percent) and enterprise products partners l.p. (12 percent). the company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, ngl and gas production. derivative risk management activities. the company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the company produces and sells, (ii) support the company annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. the company also utilizes commodity swap contracts to reduce price volatility on the fuel that the company drilling rigs and fracture stimulation fleets consume. effective february 1, 2009, the company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its then-existing hedge contracts and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark-to-market ( mtm ) method of accounting. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a description of the company derivative risk management activities, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, and note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. these risks are not the only risks facing the company. the company business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. if any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the company business, financial condition or results of operations and impair pioneer ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. in that case, the market price of the company common stock could decline. the prices of oil, ngl and gas are highly volatile. a sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the company revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the company control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, ngl and gas; inventory levels at cushing, oklahoma, the benchmark for wti oil prices; gas inventory levels in the united states; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of opec and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; 16 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the effect of lng deliveries to the united states; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. in the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the company expects this volatility to continue. for example, during 2011, oil prices fluctuated from a high of $113.93 per bbl in april to a low of $75.67 per bbl in october, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $4.85 per mcf in june to a low of $2.99 per mcf in december. during 2010, oil prices fluctuated from a low of $68.01 per bbl in may to a high of $91.51 per bbl in december, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.01 per mcf in january to a low of $3.29 per mcf in october. the company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the company cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the company financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, ngl and gas that the company can produce economically. a reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. any of these factors could negatively affect the company ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. the company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. these increases could reduce the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. historically, the company capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, ngl and gas prices. these cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the company control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. such costs may rise faster than increases in the company revenue, thereby negatively impacting the company profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. the company derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. to achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the company exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and gas, the company strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, ngl and gas production. these derivative arrangements are subject to mtm accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the company statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. these derivative contracts may also expose the company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. on the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. the failure by counterparties to the company derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. the use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. if any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the company derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the company future production being subject to commodity price changes. 17 table of contents pioneer natural resources company exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. the cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services and personnel required to complete the company drilling, completion and operating activities. the company future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the company future results of operations and financial condition. while all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. the company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2012. future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the company proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the company results of operations. declines in commodity prices may result in the company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. if this occurs, or if the company estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the company oil and gas properties. the company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. to the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the company oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. for example, during 2011 and 2009, the company recognized impairment charges of $354.4 million and $21.1 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the company edwards and austin chalk gas fields in south texas and the uinta/piceance area in colorado, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. the company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the company results of operations in the period incurred. the company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2011, the company carried unproved property costs of $235.5 million. gaap requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. these evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. if the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. the company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the company growth. the company growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. the success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: 18 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the impact on the company liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the company growing business and assets. all of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. even though the company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. as a result, among other risks, the company initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. the company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. the company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. various factors could materially affect the ability of the company to dispose of nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the company. sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. the magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. as a result, after a sale, the company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. the company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. at december 31, 2011, the company carried goodwill of $298.1 million associated with its united states reporting unit. goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a july 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the company goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit assets and liabilities. those assessments may be affected by (a) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) management outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the company market capitalization, (e) changes in the company weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes related to the company united states reporting unit. if the fair value of the reporting unit net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. the company gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. as of december 31, 2011, the company owned interests in four gas processing plants and ten treating facilities. the company operates two of the gas processing plants and all ten of the treating facilities. there are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. gas and ngls are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 19 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the company operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the company and unforeseen interruptions to the company operations for which the company may not be adequately insured. the company operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants in to the surface and subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. the company overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide drilling, fracture stimulation and other services internally. any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. the company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. additionally, the company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. the company expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. the company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. these drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the company future drilling plans. the company ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel and drilling results. because of these uncertainties, the company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the company expectations for success. as such, the company actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the company current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the company proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transportation, storage and processing facilities to market its oil, ngl and gas production. the marketing of oil, ngl and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. if there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the company, the price offered for the company production could be significantly depressed, or the company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. the company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport and sell its oil, ngl and gas production. the company plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing facilities to the company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. 20 table of contents pioneer natural resources company the nature of the company assets and operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. the oil and gas business involves the production, handling, sale and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. a variety of united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the company operations. such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. see item 1. business competition, markets and regulations environmental matters and regulations above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. no assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the company future operations and financial condition. pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. the company credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. the company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. the terms of the company borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. the company ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the company direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. see note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and notes b and i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for information regarding estimated future interest payment obligations under long-term debt obligations and note e of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the company was a party as of december 31, 2011, and from which the company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rates. the fair values of the company derivative contracts are determined based on the company valuation models and applications. as of december 31, 2011, the company was a party to commodity swap contracts, interest rate swap contracts, commodity collar contracts and commodity collar contracts with short put options. see note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in