risk factors 15 risk factors and by similar disclosures in any of our subsequent sec filings. the information contained herein speaks as of the date hereof and we do not have or undertake any obligation to update such information as future events unfold. item 1a. risk factors we are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more of them occur, could adversely affect our business, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or the trading price of our common stock. in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities, you should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the sec. the risks below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also adversely impact our business in the future. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the combination the success of the combination will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the rocktenn and mwv businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies, and achieves the identified projected cost savings and revenue growth trends. on a combined basis, we expect to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities, the elimination of redundancies, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration. we have set a $1.0 billion annualized run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by september 30, 2018. we also expect to realize revenue synergies, such as expanded and complementary product offerings and increased geographic reach of the combined businesses. however, we must successfully combine the businesses of rocktenn and mwv in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. in addition, we must achieve the anticipated savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. the failure to successfully integrate certain businesses and operations of rocktenn and mwv in the expected time frame may adversely affect our future results historically, rocktenn and mwv operated as independent companies. the business currently conducted by westrock is the combined businesses conducted by rocktenn and mwv prior to the combination. we may face significant challenges in consolidating certain businesses and functions of rocktenn and mwv, integrating their technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in the business cultures of the two companies and retaining key personnel. the integration may also be complex and time consuming, and require substantial resources and effort. the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the combination may also disrupt ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers and others with whom rocktenn and mwv had business or other dealings or limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the combination. in addition, difficulties in integrating the businesses or regulatory functions of rocktenn and mwv could harm our reputation. 15 table of contents combining the businesses of rocktenn and mwv may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, which may adversely affect our results and negatively affect the value of our common stock if we are not able to successfully combine the businesses of rocktenn and mwv in an efficient, effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock may be affected adversely. an inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the combination, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and our operating results, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. also, the integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. actual synergies, if achieved, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. in addition, the expected contribution savings from merging the u.s. pension plans of the companies may be higher or lower than anticipated. if we are not able to adequately address integration challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate mwv's and rocktenn's operations or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies. rocktenn and mwv have, and westrock expects, to incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with the combination rocktenn and mwv have incurred and we expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the combination. these costs and expenses include, but are not limited to financial advisory, bank fees, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, reorganization and restructuring costs, severance/employee benefit-related expenses, filing fees, printing expenses, and other related charges and integration costs. there are also a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the combination. while we assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the combination, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. there may also be additional unanticipated significant costs in connection with the combination that we may not recoup. these costs and expenses could reduce the benefits and additional income we expect to achieve from the combination. although we expect that these benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. there can be no assurance that the separation of our specialty chemicals business will occur, and until it occurs, the terms of the separation may change and we and our stockholders may not realize the potential benefits from the separation of our specialty chemicals business we expect to complete the separation of our specialty chemicals business, now called ingevity, through a spin-off or other alternative transaction. we are targeting an approximate march 1, 2016 separation. however, there can be no assurance of the timeframe in which the separation will occur or that the separation will occur at all. until the separation occurs, we will have the discretion to determine and change the terms of the separation or determine not to proceed with the separation. westrock and its stockholders may not realize the potential benefits expected from the separation of its specialty chemicals business. in addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and some negative effects from the separation of the specialty chemicals business, including loss of access to some of the financial, managerial and professional resources from which mwv benefited in the past, and diminished diversification of revenue sources, which may increase volatility of results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements. in addition, until the market has fully analyzed our value after the separation of its specialty chemicals business, our common stock may experience more market price volatility than usual. it is also possible that the combined market prices of our common stock and the common stock of ingevity immediately after the separation will be more or less than the market prices of our common stock immediately before the separation. we are exposed to the risks related to international sales and operations we predominately operate in domestic u.s. markets, but derive a portion of our total sales from outside the u.s. through international operations or exports to foreign customers. therefore, we have exposure to risks of operating in many foreign countries, including: difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; 16 table of contents restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the u.s.; political and economic instability; import and export restrictions and other trade barriers; difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations; difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions; government limitations on foreign ownership; government takeover or nationalization of business; government mandated price controls; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect our international operations and could significantly affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the future success of our international operations could be adversely affected by violations or alleged violations of the fcpa and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws. the fcpa, and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws, prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the fcpa. our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, may not adequately protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed or alleged to be committed by our employees, agents, or vendors. any such allegations could lead to civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties and/or could damage our reputation. there can be no assurance that violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, would not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we may face increased costs and reduced supply of raw materials and energy costs of recovered paper and virgin fiber, our principal externally sourced raw materials for our mills, and items such as crude tall oil, or cto , sawdust, phosphoric acid, ethyleneamines and lignin for our specialty chemicals operations, are subject to pricing variability due to market and industry conditions. increasing demand for products packaged in 100% recycled paper, greater demand for u.s. sourced recovered paper by asian based paper manufacturers, and the shift by manufacturers of virgin paperboard, tissue, newsprint and corrugated packaging to the production of products with some recycled paper content have and may continue to increase demand for recovered paper, which may result in cost increases. certain published indexes contribute to price setting for some of our raw materials. future changes in how these indexes are established or maintained could impact pricing. at times, the cost of natural gas, which we use in many of our manufacturing operations, including many of our mills and specialty chemicals operations, and other energy costs (including energy generated by burning natural gas, fuel oil, biomass and coal) have fluctuated significantly. there can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in the cost of raw materials or energy through price increases for our products. the failure to obtain raw materials or energy at reasonable market prices, or the failure to pass on price increases, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. further, a reduction in availability of raw materials or energy sources due to increased demand or other factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience pricing variability the selling prices in the industries we operate have historically experienced significant fluctuations. certain published indexes contribute to the setting of selling prices for some of our products. future changes in how these indexes are established or maintained could impact selling prices. if we are unable to maintain selling prices, that inability may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are not able to predict with certainty future market conditions or the selling prices for our products. our earnings are highly dependent on volumes our operations generally have high fixed operating cost components and, therefore, our earnings are highly dependent on volumes, which tend to fluctuate. these fluctuations make it difficult to predict our financial results with any degree of certainty. an inability to maintain volumes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 table of contents we face intense competition our businesses are in industries that are highly competitive, and no single company dominates an industry. our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. we generally compete with companies operating in north america, although we have operations spanning north america, south america, europe and asia. competition from domestic or foreign lower cost manufacturers in the future could negatively impact our sales volumes and pricing. because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for sales opportunities to customers for new business or for renewal of existing business. the loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business with less favorable terms, may have a significant impact on our results of operations. further, competitive conditions may prevent us from fully recovering increased costs and may inhibit our ability to pass on cost increases to our customers. customer shifts away from paperboard and containerboard packaging to packaging from other materials or from products in our specialty chemicals business such as tall oil rosin-based resins in the adhesives and ink markets to hydrocarbon and gum rosin-based products could adversely affect our results of operations. our mills' sales volumes may be directly impacted by changes in demand for our packaging products. we have been dependent on certain customers each of our segments has certain large customers, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the segment's sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may incur business disruptions we take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, severe weather, flood, fire, or other unanticipated problems such as labor difficulties, inability to obtain freight services, equipment failure or unscheduled maintenance could cause operational disruptions of varied duration. disruptions at our suppliers could lead to short term or longer rises in raw material or energy costs and/or reduced availability of materials or energy. these types of disruptions could materially adversely affect our earnings to varying degrees dependent upon the facility, the duration of the disruption, our ability to shift business to another facility or find alternative sources of materials or energy. any losses due to these events may not be covered by our existing insurance policies or may be subject to certain deductibles. we may be adversely affected by current economic and financial market conditions our businesses may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general economic and business conditions, changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions in the financial services markets including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar or the impact of a stronger u.s. dollar may negatively impact our ability to compete. macro-economic challenges, including conditions in financial and capital markets and levels of unemployment, and the ability of the u.s. and other countries to deal with their rising debt levels may continue to put pressure on the economy or lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates. there can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or tax rates will not have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate, or deferred tax assets and liabilities. adverse developments in the u.s. and global economy, including locations such as europe, brazil, india and china, could drive an increase or decrease in the demand for our products that could increase or decrease our revenues, increase or decrease our manufacturing costs and ultimately increase or decrease our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. as a result of negative changes in the economy, customers, vendors or counterparties may experience significant cash flow problems or cause consumers of our products to postpone or refrain from spending in response to adverse economic events or conditions. if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or cash flows or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay or may delay payment of accounts receivable that are owed to us or we may experience lower sales volumes. we are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, and our business could be materially and adversely affected by these market conditions. if interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected we maintain levels of floating rate debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows and other metrics. our floating rate debt exposes us to changes in interest rates. we utilize fixed rate debt and from time to time derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. however, there can be no assurance that our financial risk management will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. our interest expense may also be affected by our credit ratings. 18 table of contents we may be unable to successfully complete and finance mergers and acquisitions we have completed several mergers and acquisitions in recent years and we have and may continue to seek additional such opportunities. there can be no assurance that we will successfully be able to identify suitable targets, complete and finance the transactions, integrate the target operations into our existing operations, realize the anticipated synergies and business opportunities or expand into new markets. there can also be no assurance that future transactions will not have an adverse effect on our operating results, or that the terms of the debt financing and our increased indebtedness following a transaction, as well as any potential underfunded pension and postretirement liabilities of the acquired operations, may have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. target operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those our existing operations achieve, or otherwise perform as expected. in addition, it is possible that, in connection with mergers and acquisitions, our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated and that we may not realize the expected benefits of such capital expenditures. our business may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general economic conditions or business risks associated with macro-economic challenges, including, without limitation, potential turmoil in financial, capital and equity markets and high levels of unemployment. should these types of conditions and risks occur with sufficient severity, there can be no assurance that such changes would not materially impact the carrying value of our goodwill. we are subject to extensive and costly environmental and other governmental regulation we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances, the regulation of chemicals used in our operations, as well as other financial and non-financial regulations, including items such as air and water quality, the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater and matters related to the health and safety of employees. we regularly make capital expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. however, environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent. consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. in addition, we cannot currently assess the impact of future changes in governmental regulations, including future emissions standards and climate change initiatives (such as regulations on emissions from certain industrial boilers), and government's enforcement practices will have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. further, we have been identified as a prp at various third-party disposal sites pursuant to u.s. federal or state statutes. there can be no assurance that any liability we may incur in connection with these or other sites at which we may be identified in the future as a responsible party or in connection with other governmental requirements, including capital investments or business disruptions associated with regulatory compliance, will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our operations also consume significant amounts of energy, and we may incur additional indirect costs as a result of changes in costs of energy due to increased climate-related regulations. our specialty chemicals business sales are impacted by factors such as adverse conditions in the automotive market, government infrastructure spending and levels of energy exploration sales of our automotive carbon products are tied to global automobile production levels. automotive production in the markets we serve can be affected by macro-economic factors such as interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment trends, regulatory and legislative oversight requirements and trade agreements. a significant portion of our customers' revenues in our pavement technologies business is derived indirectly from contracts with various foreign and u.s. governmental agencies, and therefore, when government spending is reduced, our customers' need for these products is similarly reduced. while we do not do business directly with governmental agencies, our customers provide paving services to, the governments of various jurisdictions, and we anticipate that revenue either directly or indirectly attributable to such government spending will continue to remain a significant portion of our revenues for this business. government business is, in general, subject to special risks and challenges, including: delays in funding and uncertainty regarding the allocation of funds to federal, state and local agencies, delays in the expenditures and delays or reductions in other state and local funding dedicated for transportation projects; other government budgetary constraints, cutbacks, delays or reallocation of government funding; long purchase cycles or approval processes; our customers' competitive bidding and qualification requirements; changes in government policies and political agendas; and international conflicts or other military operations that could cause the temporary or permanent diversion of government funding from transportation or other infrastructure projects. demand for our oilfield technologies services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. the level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, 19 table of contents which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile. during periods of reduced oilfield activity we are likely to experience reduced demand for our oilfield technology products, which may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our capital expenditures may not achieve the desired outcome or may be achieved at a higher cost we regularly make capital expenditures with respect to our manufacturing facilities. many of our projects are complex, costly and are implemented over an extended period of time. consequently, it is possible that our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated, we may experience unanticipated business disruptions or we may not achieve the desired benefits from such projects. should these types of conditions and risks occur with sufficient severity, there can also be no assurance that such conditions would not have an adverse effect upon our operating results. we may incur additional restructuring costs we have restructured portions of our operations from time to time, including in connection with the combination. it is possible that we may engage in additional restructuring initiatives. because we are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, including the change in the supply and demand for our products, the loss of large customers, or the selling prices for our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty when it will be appropriate to undertake restructurings. the costs associated with these activities will vary depending upon the type of facility impacted, with the non-cash cost of a mill closure generally being more significant than that of a converting facility due to the higher level of fixed costs. it is also possible, in connection with these restructuring efforts, that our costs could be higher than we anticipate and that we may not realize the expected benefits. we may incur increased transportation costs we distribute our products primarily by truck and rail, although we also distribute some of our products by cargo ship. reduced availability of trucks, rail cars or cargo ships could negatively impact our ability to ship our products in a timely manner. there can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in transportation rates or fuel surcharges through price increases for our products. work stoppages and other labor relations matters may have an adverse effect on our financial results a significant number of our union employees are governed by cbas. expired contracts are in the process of renegotiation. we may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts without work stoppages or labor difficulties or renegotiate without unfavorable terms. if we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements or an industry association is unable to successfully negotiate a national agreement when they expire, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may incur increased employee benefit costs, certain of our pension plans will require additional cash contributions and we may incur increased funding requirements in the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate employee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. the patient protection and affordable care act has resulted in significant healthcare cost increases. our pension and health care benefits are dependent upon multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. following the combination, westrock merged mwv's u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plans into the rock-tenn company consolidated pension plan, and renamed the merged plan the westrock company consolidated pension plan. the westrock company consolidated pension plan is over funded. excluding the aforementioned pension plans, we expect to make future contributions to primarily our foreign pension plans in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate and meet regulatory requirements. the actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be highly sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets, and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. our pension plan assets are primarily made up of fixed income, equity and alternative investments. fluctuations in market performance of these assets and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels or mortality could also increase or decrease pension costs. there can be no assurance that such changes, including turmoil in financial and capital markets, will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we participate in several mepps administered by labor unions that provide retirement benefits to certain union employees in accordance with various cbas. as one of many participating employers in these plans, we are generally responsible with the other participating employers for any plan underfunding. our contributions to a particular mepp are established by the applicable cbas; 20 table of contents however, our required contributions may increase based on the funded status of a mepp and legal requirements such as those of the pension act, which requires substantially underfunded mepps to implement a funding improvement plan or a rehabilitation plan to improve their funded status. we believe that certain of the mepps in which we participate have material unfunded vested benefits. due to uncertainty regarding future factors that could trigger a withdrawal liability, including partial withdrawal liabilities triggered by facility closures, as well as the absence of specific information regarding matters such as the mepp's current financial situation due in part due to delays in reporting, the potential withdrawal or bankruptcy of other contributing employers, the impact of future plan performance or the success of current and future funding improvement or rehabilitation plans to restore solvency to the plans, we are unable to determine with certainty the amount and timing of any future withdrawal liability, changes in future funding obligations or the impact of increased contributions including those that could be triggered by a mass withdrawal of other employers from a mepp. there can be no assurance that the impact of increased contributions, future funding obligations or future withdrawal liabilities will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we are subject to cyber-security risks related to certain customer, employee, vendor or other company data we use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. we rely upon various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. our systems are subject to repeated attempts by third parties to access information or to disrupt our systems. despite our security design and controls, and those of our third party providers, we could become subject to cyber-attacks which could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data. there can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our success is in part dependent on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products and to acquire and retain intellectual property rights our ability to develop and successfully market new products and to develop, acquire and retain necessary intellectual property rights is important to our continued success and competitive position. if we were unable to protect our existing intellectual property rights, develop new rights, or if others developed similar or improved technologies, there can be no assurance that such events would not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the real estate industry is highly competitive and economically cyclical we engage in value-added real estate development activities in the charleston, south carolina region, including obtaining entitlements and establishing joint ventures and other development-related arrangements. our ability to execute our plans to realize the greater value associated with our development land holdings may be affected by the following factors, among others: general economic conditions, including credit markets and interest rates; local real estate market conditions, including competition from sellers of land and real estate developers; and impact of federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting land use, land use entitlements, land protection and zoning. there can be no assurance that the impact of any such factors or our ability to execute such plans will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. accounts receivable and allowances we have an allowance for doubtful accounts, credits, returns and allowances, and cash discounts that serve to reduce the value of our gross accounts receivable to the amount we estimate we will ultimately collect. the allowances contain uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions and apply judgment regarding the customer's credit worthiness and the credits, returns and allowances and cash discounts that may be taken by our customers. we perform ongoing evaluations of our customers' financial condition and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customer's current credit worthiness, as determined by our review of their current financial information. we continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our customers' financial condition, our collection experience and any other relevant customer specific information. our assessment of this and other information forms the basis of our allowances. we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to estimate the allowances. however, while these credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions we established, it is possible that our credit loss rates could be higher or lower in the future depending on changes in business conditions and changes in our customers' credit worthiness. at september 30, 2015 , our accounts receivable, net of allowances of $ 29.6 million , was $1,690.0 million ; a 1% additional loss on accounts receivable would be $16.9 million and a 5% change in our allowance assumptions would change our allowance by approximately $1.5 million. goodwill and long-lived assets we review the recorded value of our goodwill annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed fair value as set forth in asc 350, intangibles goodwill and other. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. a component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. however, two or more components of an operating segment are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics. the amount of goodwill acquired in a business combination that is assigned to one or more reporting units as of the acquisition date is the excess of the purchase price of the acquired businesses (or portion thereof) included in the reporting unit, over the fair value assigned to the individual assets acquired or liabilities assumed. goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit(s) expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination even though other assets or liabilities of the acquired entity may not be assigned to that reporting unit. we determine recoverability by comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill applies to the carrying value, including goodwill, of that reporting unit using a discounted cash flow model. estimating the fair value of the reporting unit involves uncertainties, because it requires management to develop numerous assumptions, including assumptions about the future growth and potential volatility in revenues and costs, capital expenditures, industry economic factors and future business strategy. the variability of the factors that management uses to perform the goodwill impairment test depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and cash flows, including anticipated changes in revenues and costs and synergies and productivity improvements resulting from the acquisitions, capital expenditures and continuous improvement projects. all such factors are interdependent and, therefore, do not change in isolation. accordingly, our accounting estimates may materially change from period to period due to changing market factors. if we had used other assumptions and estimates or if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted. however, as of our most recent review during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 , if forecasted net operating profit before tax was decreased by 10%, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units would have continued to exceed their respective carrying values. also, based on the same information, if we had concluded that it was appropriate to increase by 100 basis points the discount rate we used to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit, the fair value for each of our reporting units would have continued to exceed its carrying value. therefore, based on current estimates we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a change in future assumptions or estimates which would put any of our reporting units at risk of failing the step one goodwill impairment test. no events have occurred since the latest annual goodwill impairment assessment that would necessitate an interim goodwill impairment assessment. we follow the provisions included in asc 360, property, plant and equipment, in determining whether the carrying value of any of our long-lived assets is impaired. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on legal factors, market conditions and operational performance. future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that assets associated with a particular operation are impaired. evaluating the impairment also requires us to estimate future 45 table of contents operating results and cash flows, which also require judgment by management. any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. included in our long-lived assets are certain intangible assets. these intangible assets are amortized based on the approximate pattern in which the economic benefits are consumed or straight-line if the pattern was not reliably determinable. estimated useful lives range from 1 to 40 years and have a weighted average life of approximately 17.7 years. we identify the weighted average lives of our intangible assets by category in note 8. other intangible assets of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein. we have not made any material changes to our impairment loss assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate impairment losses. however, if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. restructuring our restructuring and other costs, net include primarily items such as restructuring portions of our operations, acquisition costs, integration costs and divestiture costs. we have restructured portions of our operations from time to time, have current restructuring initiatives taking place, and it is possible that we may engage in additional restructuring activities in the future. identifying and calculating the cost to exit these operations requires certain assumptions to be made, the most significant of which are anticipated future liabilities, including leases and other contractual obligations, and the adjustment of property, plant and equipment to net realizable value. we believe our estimates are reasonable, considering our knowledge of the industries we operate in, previous experience in exiting activities and valuations we may obtain from independent third parties. although our estimates have been reasonably accurate in the past, significant judgment is required, and these estimates and assumptions may change as additional information becomes available and facts or circumstances change. business combinations from time to time, we may enter into business combinations. in accordance with asc 805, business combinations, we generally recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in an acquiree at their fair values as of the date of acquisition. we measure goodwill as the excess of consideration transferred, which we also measure at fair value, over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the acquisition method of accounting requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair values of the elements of a business combination as of the date of acquisition, including the fair values of identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, contingent consideration and contingencies. this method also requires us to refine these estimates over a measurement period not to exceed one year to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. if we are required to retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions, these adjustments could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. significant estimates and assumptions in estimating the fair value of acquired technology, customer relationships, and other identifiable intangible assets include future cash flows that we expect to generate from the acquired assets. if the subsequent actual results and updated projections of the underlying business activity change compared with the assumptions and projections used to develop these values, we could record impairment charges. in addition, we have estimated the economic lives of certain acquired assets and these lives are used to calculate depreciation and amortization expense. if our estimates of the economic lives change, depreciation or amortization expenses could be increased or decreased, or the acquired asset could be impaired. fair value of financial instruments and nonfinancial assets and liabilities we define fair value as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. financial instruments not recognized at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivables, certain other current assets, short-term debt, accounts payable, certain other current liabilities and long-term debt. with the exception of long-term debt, the carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate their fair values due to their short maturities. the fair values of our long-term debt are estimated using quoted market prices or are based on the discounted value of future cash flows. 46 table of contents we have, or from time to time may have, financial instruments including supplemental plans that are nonqualified deferred compensation plans pursuant to which assets are invested primarily in mutual funds, interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives or other similar class of assets or liabilities. other than the fair value of our long-term debt and our pension and postretirement assets and liabilities disclosed in note 9. debt and note 13. retirement plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein, the fair value of these items is not significant. we measure certain nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. these assets and liabilities include cost and equity method investments when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a merger or an acquisition or in a nonmonetary exchange, and property, plant and equipment and goodwill and other intangible assets that are written down to fair value when they are held for sale or determined to be impaired. given the nature of nonfinancial assets and liabilities, evaluating their fair value from the perspective of a market participant is inherently complex. assumptions and estimates about future values can be affected by a variety of internal and external factors. changes in these factors may require us to revise our estimates and could result in future impairment charges for goodwill and acquired intangible assets, or retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with business combinations. these adjustments could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we discuss fair values in more detail in note 10. fair value of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein. derivatives we are exposed to interest rate risk, commodity price risk and foreign currency exchange risk. to manage these risks, from time to time and to varying degrees, we may enter into a variety of financial derivative transactions and certain physical commodity transactions that are determined to be derivatives. interest rate swaps may be entered into to manage the interest rate risk associated with a portion of our outstanding debt. interest rate swaps are either designated for accounting purposes as cash flow hedges of forecasted floating interest payments on variable rate debt or fair value hedges of fixed rate debt, or we may elect not to treat them as accounting hedges. swaps or forward contracts on certain commodities may be entered into to manage the price risk associated with forecasted purchases or sales of those commodities. in addition, certain commodity financial derivative contracts and physical commodity contracts that are determined to be derivatives may not be designated as accounting hedges because either they do not meet the criteria for treatment as accounting hedges under asc 815, derivatives and hedging , or we elect not to treat them as accounting hedges under asc 815. we may also enter into forward contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates with respect to transactions denominated in currencies such as canadian dollars, the euro or brazilian real. outstanding financial derivative instruments expose us to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. our credit exposure related to these financial instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts reported as assets. we manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through minimum credit standards, diversification of counterparties and procedures to monitor concentrations of credit risk. we may enter into financial derivative contracts that may contain credit-risk-related contingent features which could result in a counterparty requesting immediate payment or demanding immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization on derivative instruments in net liability positions. for financial derivative instruments that are designated as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the financial derivative instrument is reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same line item associated with the forecasted transaction, and in the same period or periods during which the forecasted transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the financial derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings. we have at times entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively modified our exposure to interest rate risk by converting a portion of our interest payments on floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis, thus reducing the impact of interest rate changes on future interest expense. these agreements typically involved the receipt of floating rate amounts in exchange for fixed interest rate payments over the life of the agreements without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. at september 30, 2015, there were no interest rate or commodity derivatives outstanding. the notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments outstanding used to hedge inter-company loans was $90.2 million at september 30, 2015 . these instruments have not been designated as hedges. 47 table of contents accounting for income taxes our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, reflect management's best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense. deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amount in the financial statements, which will result in deductible amounts in the future. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent operations. in projecting future taxable income, we incorporate assumptions about the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. in evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating income (loss). we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income. a 1% increase in our effective tax rate would increase tax expense by approximately $7.6 million for fiscal 2015 . a 1% increase in our effective tax rate used to compute deferred tax liabilities and assets, as recorded on the september 30, 2015 consolidated balance sheet, would increase tax expense by approximately $100.9 million for fiscal 2015 . pension and other postretirement benefits certain of our employees in the u.s., canada and other countries are currently accruing pension benefits. in addition, under several labor contracts, we make payments based on hours worked into mepp trusts established for the benefit of certain collective bargaining employees in facilities both inside and outside the u.s. we also have a supplemental executive retirement plan and other unfunded defined benefit plans that provide unfunded supplemental retirement benefits to certain of our executives. the determination of our obligation and expense for these plans is dependent on our selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. we describe these assumptions in note 13. retirement plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein, which include, among others, the discount rate, mortality rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and expected rates of increase in compensation levels. although there is authoritative guidance on how to select most of these assumptions, management must exercise judgment when selecting these assumptions. we evaluate these assumptions with our actuarial advisors on an annual basis, and we believe they are within accepted industry ranges, although an increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our control could have a direct impact on recorded obligations and reported net earnings. the funded status of our qualified and non-qualified u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans increased $1.3 billion in fiscal 2015, due to the combination. our u.s. pension plans are overfunded $359.3 million and the non-u.s. pension plans are underfunded $153.3 million. the u.s. pension plans' funded status was also impacted by a 16 basis point increase in the discount rate compared to the prior measurement date, and our non-u.s. pension plan obligations were impacted by an 11 basis point decrease in the discount rate compared to the prior measurement date. a 25 basis point change in the discount rate, compensation level, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets or medical cost trend, factoring in our corridor as appropriate, would have had the following effect on fiscal 2015 pension expense (amounts in the table in parentheses reflect additional income, in millions): pension plans postretirement plans 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease discount rate $ 0.8 $ 12.8 $ $ compensation level 0.4 (0.4 ) n/a n/a expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (17.4 ) 17.4 n/a n/a medical cost trend n/a n/a 0.1 (0.1 ) 48 table of contents new accounting standards see note 1. description of business and summary of significant accounting policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective expected dates of adoption and expected effects on results of operations and financial condition. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in, including but not limited to, interest rates and commodity prices. our objective is to identify and understand these risks and then implement strategies to manage them. when evaluating these strategies, we evaluate the fundamentals of each market, our sensitivity to movements in pricing, and underlying accounting and business implications. to implement these strategies, we periodically enter into various hedging transactions. the sensitivity analyses we present below do not consider the effect of possible adverse changes in the general economy, nor do they consider additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. there can be no assurance that we will manage or continue to manage any risks in the future or that our efforts will be successful. containerboard and paperboard shipments we are exposed to market risk related to our sales of containerboard and paperboard. we sell a significant portion of our mill production and converted products pursuant to contracts that provide that prices are either fixed for specified terms or provide for price adjustments based on negotiated terms, including changes in specified index prices. we have the capacity to ship approximately 9.9 million tons in our corrugated packaging segment and approximately 4.1 million tons in our consumer packaging segment. although our mill system operating rates may vary from year to year due to changes in market and other factors, our simple average mill system operating rates for the last three years averaged 95%. a hypothetical $10 per ton decrease in the price of paperboard throughout the year based on our capacity would decrease our sales by approximately $99 million and $41 million in our corrugated packaging and consumer packaging segments, respectively. there can be no assurance that such changes in market pricing would be driven by lower costs or that we would have the ability to avoid passing through the decrease to our customers; therefore, there can be no assurance that our results of operations would not be adversely impacted. energy energy is one of the most significant costs of our mill operations. the cost of natural gas, coal, oil, electricity and wood by-products (biomass) at times have fluctuated significantly. in our recycled paperboard mills, we use primarily natural gas and electricity, supplemented with fuel oil and coal to generate steam used in the paper making process and to operate our recycled paperboard machines. in our virgin fiber mills, we use biomass, natural gas, coal and fuel oil to generate steam used in the paper making process, to generate some or all of the electricity used on site and to operate our paper machines. we primarily use electricity and natural gas to operate our converting facilities. we generally purchase these products from suppliers at market or tariff rates. based on fiscal 2015 pricing, we estimate our annual energy expenditure on all energy sources to operate our facilities to be approximately $834 million, including amounts related to facilities acquired in the combination. we expect natural gas to account for approximately two-fifths (approximately 67 million mmbtu) of our total energy purchases in a fiscal year. a hypothetical 10% increase in the price of energy throughout the year would increase our cost of energy by approximately $83 million based on anticipated annual consumption and fiscal 2015 pricing. in times of higher energy prices, we may have the ability to pass a portion of the increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher finished product pricing; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. recycled fiber the principal raw material we use in the production of recycled paperboard and a portion of our containerboard is recycled fiber. in fiscal 2015 , our purchases of old corrugated containers and double-lined kraft clippings account for our largest recycled fiber costs and approximately 90% of our recycled fiber purchases. the remaining 10% of our recycled fiber purchases consists of a number of other grades of recycled paper. the mix of recycled fiber may vary due to factors such as market demand, availability and pricing. a hypothetical 10% increase in recycled fiber prices in our mills for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $76 million. in times of higher recycled fiber prices, we may have the ability to pass a portion of the increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher finished product pricing; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. 49 table of contents virgin fiber the principal raw material we use in the production of a portion of our containerboard, bleached paperboard and market pulp is virgin fiber. a hypothetical 10% increase in virgin fiber prices in our mills for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $124 million. in times of higher virgin fiber prices, we may have the ability to pass a portion of the increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher finished product pricing; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. freight inbound and outbound freight is a significant expenditure for us. factors that influence our freight expense are items such as distance between our shipping and delivery locations, distance from customers and suppliers, mode of transportation (rail, truck, intermodal and ocean) and freight rates, which are influenced by supply and demand and fuel costs, primarily diesel. a hypothetical 10% increase for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $126 million, of which approximately one-fourth would be the proportion related to higher diesel costs based on our estimated 93 million gallons consumed annually. in times of higher freight prices, we may have the ability to pass a portion of our increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher finished product pricing; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. interest rates we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily as a result of our short-term and long-term debt. we may from time to time use interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate characteristics of a portion of our outstanding debt. based on the amounts and mix of our fixed and floating rate debt at september 30, 2015 , if market interest rates increase an average of 100 basis points, our interest expense would increase by approximately $21 million. we determined these amounts by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on our borrowing costs. this analysis does not consider the effects of changes in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. pension plans our pension plans are influenced by trends in the financial markets and the regulatory environment. adverse general stock market trends and falling interest rates increase plan costs and liabilities. during fiscal 2015 , the effect of a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by approximately $12.8 million and a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by $0.8 million. during fiscal 2014, the effect of a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by approximately $1.0 million and a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by $0.2 million. similarly, mepps in which we participate could experience similar circumstances which could impact our funding requirements and therefore expenses. we discuss our mepps in note 13. retirement plans multiemployer plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein. foreign currency we have foreign-based operations, primarily in south america, canada, mexico, europe and asia, which accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2015, some of which is transacted in u.s. dollars. in addition, certain of the company's domestic operations have sales to foreign customers. in the conduct of its foreign operations, the company also makes inter-company sales and receives royalties and dividends denominated in many different currencies. all of this exposes the company to the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. flows of foreign currencies into and out of the company's operations are generally stable and regularly occurring and are recorded at fair market value in the company's financial statements. the company's foreign currency management policy permits it to enter into foreign currency hedges when these flows exceed a threshold, which is a function of these cash flows and forecasted annual operations. the company also issues inter-company loans to and receives foreign cash deposits from its foreign subsidiaries in their local currencies, exposing it to the effect of changes in spot exchange rates between loan issue and loan repayment dates for the inter-company loans and changes in spot exchange rates from deposit date for foreign cash deposits. from time to time, management may use foreign-exchange hedge contracts with terms of generally less than one year to hedge these exposures. although the company's derivative and other foreign currency sensitive instruments expose it to market risk, fluctuations in the value of these instruments are mitigated by expected offsetting fluctuations in the matched exposures. 50 table of contents during fiscal 2015 and 2014 , the effect of a hypothetical 10% change in foreign segment income driven by exchange rates would have impacted our segment results by approximately $16 million and $11 million, respectively. for more information about our foreign operations, see note 19. segment information of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein. following the combination, our foreign segment income is expected to grow and therefore we will be more susceptible to fluctuations in exchange rates. during fiscal 2015 and 2014 , the effect of a 1% change in exchange rates would have impacted accumulated other comprehensive income by approximately $25 million and $4 million, respectively. the impact of foreign currency quantified above does not consider the effects of a stronger or weaker dollar on our ability to compete for export business or the overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. changes in foreign exchange rates could impact the price and therefore also the demand for our products. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation . energy energy is one of the most significant costs of our mill operations. the cost of natural gas, coal, oil, electricity and wood by-products (biomass) can fluctuate significantly. in our recycled paperboard mills, we use primarily natural gas and electricity, supplemented with fuel oil and coal to generate steam used in the paper making process and to operate our recycled paperboard machines. in our virgin fiber mills, we use biomass, natural gas, coal and fuel oil to generate steam used in the paper making process, to generate some or all of the electricity used on site and to operate our paperboard machines. we primarily use electricity and natural gas to operate our converting facilities. we generally purchase these products from suppliers at market or tariff rates. see item 1. business governmental regulation environmental and other matters for additional information regarding our energy related spending. see item 1a. risk factors we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation . transportation inbound and outbound freight is a significant expenditure for us. factors that influence our freight expense are distance between our shipping and delivery locations, distance from customers and suppliers, mode of transportation (rail, truck, intermodal and ocean) and freight rates, which are influenced by supply and demand and fuel costs. the principal markets for our products are in north america, south america, europe and asia. see item 1a. risk factors we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation . 8 table of contents sales and marketing our top 10 external customers represented approximately 12% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2016 , none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales. we generally manufacture our products pursuant to customers' orders. we believe that we have good relationships with our customers. in fiscal 2016 , products sold to our top 10 customers by segment represented 15% and 19% of our external sales in our corrugated packaging segment and consumer packaging segment, respectively. see item 1a. risk factors we depend on certain large customers . as a result of our vertical integration, our mills' sales volumes may be directly impacted by changes in demand for our packaging products. during fiscal 2016, we sold approximately two-thirds of our coated natural kraft mill's production and approximately one-fifth of our bleached paperboard production to our converting operations, primarily to manufacture folding and beverage cartons, and we sold approximately two-thirds of our containerboard production, including trade swaps and buy/sell transactions, to our converting operations, to manufacture corrugated products. under the terms of our seven hills joint venture arrangement, our joint venture partner is required to purchase all of the qualifying gypsum paperboard liner produced by seven hills. excluding the seven hills production and our aurora, il production converted into book covers and other products, we supplied approximately two-fifths of our specialty mills' production in fiscal 2016 to our converting operations, primarily to manufacture interior partitions. we have the ability to move our internal sourcing among certain of our mills to optimize the efficiency of our operations. we market our products primarily through our own sales force. we also market a number of our products through independent sales representatives, independent distributors or both. we generally pay our sales personnel a base salary plus commissions. we pay our independent sales representatives on a commission basis. we discuss foreign net sales to unaffiliated customers and other non-u.s. operations financial and other segment information in note 20. segment information of the notes to consolidated financial statements. competition we operate in a challenging global marketplace and compete with many large, well established and highly competitive manufacturers and service providers. our business is affected by a range of macroeconomic conditions, including industry capacity changes, global competition, economic conditions in the u.s. and abroad, as well as fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the industries we operate in are highly competitive, and no single company dominates any of those industries. our paperboard and containerboard operations compete with integrated and non-integrated national and regional companies operating primarily in north america, and to a limited extent, manufacturers outside of north america. our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. in the corrugated packaging and folding and beverage carton markets, we compete with a significant number of national, regional and local packaging suppliers in north america and abroad. our dispensing operations compete globally with manufacturers for global end markets. in the solid fiber interior packaging, promotional point-of-purchase display and converted paperboard products markets, we primarily compete with a smaller number of national, regional and local companies offering highly specialized products. our recycled fiber brokerage and collection operations compete with various other companies for the procurement and supply of recovered paper, including brokers and companies that export recovered paper to international markets. the land and development segment competes in the real estate sales and development market in the charleston, sc region. because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for sales opportunities to customers for new business or for renewal of existing business. our packaging products compete with packaging made from other materials. the primary competitive factors we face include price, design, product innovation, quality and service, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line and customer preferences. we believe that we compete effectively with respect to each of these factors and we evaluate our performance with annual customer surveys, among other means. the businesses we operate in have undergone consolidation. within the packaging products industry, larger customers, with an expanded geographic presence, have tended to seek suppliers who can, because of their broad geographic presence, efficiently and economically supply all or a range of their packaging needs. in addition, our customers continue to demand higher quality products meeting stricter quality control requirements. see item 1a. risk factors we face intense competition and risk factors we may be adversely affected by economic and financial markets conditions, and social and political change . 9 table of contents governmental regulation health and safety regulations our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health including osha and related regulations. osha, among other things, establishes asbestos and noise standards and regulates the use of hazardous chemicals in the workplace. although we do not use asbestos in manufacturing our products, some of our facilities contain asbestos. for those facilities where asbestos is present, we believe we have properly contained the asbestos and/or we have conducted training of our employees in an effort to ensure that no federal, state or local rules or regulations are violated in the maintenance of our facilities. we do not believe that future compliance with health and safety laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. environmental and other matters environmental compliance requirements are a significant factor affecting our business. we employ manufacturing processes which result in various discharges, emissions and wastes. these processes are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations, as well as the requirements of environmental permits and similar authorizations issued by various governmental authorities. on january 31, 2013, the epa published a set of four interrelated final rules establishing national air emissions standards for hazardous air pollutants from industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters, commonly known as boiler mact . for our boilers, boiler mact required compliance by january 31, 2016, unless a facility requested and received an extension. all of our mills that are subject to regulation under boiler mact met the january 31, 2016 compliance deadline, with the exception of those mills for which we obtained a compliance extension. we expect our mills that obtained an extension to be in compliance by their respective extension dates, none of which extend beyond january 31, 2017. on july 29, 2016, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit issued a ruling on the consolidated cases challenging boiler mact. the court vacated key portions of the rule, including emission limits for certain subcategories of solid fuel boilers, and remanded other issues to the epa for further rulemaking. at this time, we cannot predict with certainty how the recent decision will impact our existing boiler mact strategies or whether we will incur additional costs to comply with any revised boiler mact standards. in addition to boiler mact, we are subject to a number of other federal, state, local and international environmental rules that may impact our business, including the national ambient air quality standards for nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter and ozone for facilities in the u.s. we are involved in various administrative proceedings relating to environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business, and may be involved in future matters. although the ultimate outcome of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty and we cannot at this time estimate any reasonably possible losses based on available information, management does not believe that the currently expected outcome of any environmental proceedings and claims that are pending or threatened against us will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. see item 1a. risk factors we are subject to extensive and costly environmental and other governmental regulation . cercla and other remediation costs we face potential liability under federal, state, local and international laws as a result of releases, or threatened releases, of hazardous substances into the environment from various sites owned and operated by third parties at which company-generated wastes have allegedly been deposited. generators of hazardous substances sent to off-site disposal locations at which environmental problems exist, as well as the owners of those sites and certain other classes of persons, are liable for response costs for the investigation and remediation of such sites under cercla and analogous laws. while joint and several liability is authorized under cercla, liability is typically shared with other prps and costs are commonly allocated according to relative amounts of waste deposited and other factors. in addition, certain of our current or former locations are being investigated or remediated under various environmental laws and regulations. based on information known to us and assumptions, we do not believe that the costs of these projects will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. however, the discovery of contamination or the imposition of additional obligations at these or other sites in the future could result in additional costs. 10 table of contents on january 26, 2009, smurfit-stone and certain of its subsidiaries filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. smurfit-stone's canadian subsidiaries also filed to reorganize in canada. we believe that matters relating to previously identified third party prp sites and certain facilities formerly owned or operated by smurfit-stone have been or will be satisfied claims in the smurfit-stone bankruptcy proceedings. however, we may face additional liability for cleanup activity at sites that existed prior to bankruptcy discharge, but are not currently identified. some of these liabilities may be satisfied from existing bankruptcy reserves. we believe that we can assert claims for indemnification pursuant to existing rights we have under settlement and purchase agreements in connection with certain of our existing remediation sites. in addition, we believe that we have insurance coverage, subject to applicable deductibles/retentions, policy limits and other conditions, for certain environmental matters. however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful with respect to any claim regarding these insurance or indemnification rights or that, if we are successful, any amounts paid pursuant to the insurance or indemnification rights will be sufficient to cover all our costs and expenses. we also cannot predict with certainty whether we will be required to perform remediation projects at other locations, and it is possible that our remediation requirements and costs could increase materially in the future and exceed current reserves. in addition, we cannot currently assess with certainty the impact that future changes in cleanup standards or federal, state or other environmental laws, regulations or enforcement practices will have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we estimate that we will invest approximately $47 million for capital expenditures during fiscal 2017 in connection with matters relating to environmental compliance. it is possible that our capital expenditure assumptions may change, project completion dates may change, and our projections are subject to change due to items such as the finalization of ongoing engineering and implementation work, the epa determinations on boiler mact implementation issues and the outcomes of pending legal challenges to the rules. climate change certain jurisdictions in which we have manufacturing facilities or other investments have taken actions to address climate change. in the u.s., the epa has issued the clean air act permitting regulations applicable to certain facilities that emit ghg. the epa also has promulgated a rule requiring certain industrial facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year to file an annual report of their emissions. while we have facilities subject to existing ghg permitting and reporting requirements, the impact of these requirements has not been material to date. additionally, the epa has been working on a set of interrelated rulemakings aimed at cutting carbon emissions from power plants. on august 3, 2015, the epa issued a final rule establishing ghg emission guidelines for existing electric utility generating units (known as the clean power plan ). on the same day, the epa issued a second rule setting standards of performance for new, modified and reconstructed electric utility generating units. while these rules do not apply directly to the power generation facilities at our mills, they have the potential to increase the cost of purchased electricity for our manufacturing operations and change the treatment of certain types of biomass that are currently considered carbon neutral. on february 9, 2016, the u.s. supreme court issued a stay halting implementation of the clean power plan until the pending legal challenges to the rule are resolved. a number of states subject to the clean power plan have stopped working on their implementation strategies in light of this decision; however, certain states where we operate manufacturing facilities are continuing their efforts. we are carefully monitoring the state-level developments relating to this rule. due to ongoing litigation and other uncertainties regarding these ghg regulations, including the potential impact of a new u.s. executive administration in 2017, their impact on us cannot be quantified with certainty at this time. in addition to national efforts to regulate climate change, some u.s. states in which we have manufacturing operations are also taking measures to reduce ghg emissions, such as requiring ghg emissions reporting or the development of regional cap-and trade programs. california has enacted a cap-and-trade program that took effect in 2012, and includes enforceable compliance obligations that began on january 1, 2013. we do not have any manufacturing facilities that are subject to the cap-and-trade requirements in california; however, we are continuing to monitor the implementation of this program as well as proposed mandatory ghg reduction efforts in other states. also, the washington department of ecology has issued a final rule, known as the clean air rule, which limits ghgs from facilities that have average annual carbon dioxide equivalent emissions equal to or exceeding 100,000 metric tons/year and proposes to begin ghg emissions reduction requirements for some regulated entities in 2017. energy intensive and trade exposed facilities and transportation fuel importers, including our tacoma, wa mill, are subject to regulation under this program. in september 2016, various groups filed lawsuits against the washington department of ecology challenging the clean air rule. we are carefully monitoring this litigation to assess its potential impact on our tacoma operations. in april 2016, the u.s. and over 170 other countries signed the paris agreement, which arose out of negotiations at the united nation's conference of parties (cop21) climate summit in december 2015. the paris agreement establishes a framework for 11 table of contents reducing global ghg emissions. by signing the paris agreement, the u.s. made a non-binding commitment to reduce economy-wide ghg emissions by 26% to 28% below 2005 levels by 2025. other countries in which we conduct business, including china, european union member states and india, have set similar ghg reduction targets. the paris agreement came into force on october 3, 2016. although, the paris agreement does not contain legally binding emissions reduction requirements and it is unclear if the new u.s. executive administration will seek to implement it, implementing legislation by ratifying governments to achieve their respective commitments may require industrial facilities, including our operations, to make process changes, incur capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. several of our international facilities are located in countries that have already adopted ghg emissions trading schemes. for example, quebec has become a member of the western climate initiative, which is a collaboration among california and certain canadian provinces that have joined together to create a cap-and-trade program to reduce ghg emissions. in 2009, quebec adopted a target of reducing ghg emissions by 20% below 1990 levels by 2020. in 2011, quebec issued a final regulation establishing a regional cap-and-trade program that required reductions in ghg emissions from covered emitters as of january 1, 2013. our mill in quebec is subject to these cap-and-trade requirements, although the direct impact of this regulation has not been material to date. compliance with this program and other similar programs may require future expenditures to meet required ghg emission reduction requirements in future years. the regulation of climate change continues to develop in the areas of the world where we conduct business. we have systems in place for tracking the ghg emissions from our energy-intensive facilities, and we carefully monitor developments in climate change laws, regulations and policies to assess the potential impact of such developments on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and disclosure obligations. patents and other intellectual property we hold a substantial number of foreign and domestic trademarks, trademark applications, trade names, patents, patent applications, and licenses relating to our business, our products and our production processes. our patent portfolio consists primarily of utility and design patents relating to our products and manufacturing operations. it also includes exclusive rights to substantial proprietary packaging system technology in the u.s. or other licenses obtained from a third party. our brand name and logo, and certain of our products and services, are protected by domestic and foreign trademark rights. our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, particularly those relating to our converting operations, are important to our operations as a whole. our intellectual property has various expiration dates. see item 1a. risk factors we depend on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products and to acquire and retain intellectual property rights . employees at september 30, 2016 , we had approximately 39,000 employees. of these employees, approximately 27,700 were hourly and approximately 11,300 were salaried. approximately 13,900 of our hourly employees in the u.s. and canada are covered by cbas, which most frequently have four or six year terms. approximately 500 of our employees are working under expired contracts and approximately 3,850 of our employees are covered under cbas that expire within one year. while we have experienced isolated work stoppages in the past, we have been able to resolve them and we believe that working relationships with our employees are generally good. while the terms of our cbas may vary, we believe the material terms of the agreements are customary for the industry, the type of facility, the classification of the employees and the geographic location covered. in october 2014, we entered into a master agreement with the usw that applied to substantially all of our legacy rocktenn facilities represented by the usw at that time. the agreement has a six year term and covers a number of specific items, including wages, medical coverage and certain other benefit programs, substance abuse testing and successorship. individual facilities will continue to have local agreements for subjects not covered by the master agreement and those agreements will continue to have staggered terms. wage increases specified in the master agreement will not begin until the local facility agreements have been negotiated and ratified. the agreement permits us to apply its terms to usw employees who work at facilities we acquire during the term of the agreement. the master agreement covers 59 of our u.s. facilities and approximately 8,400 of our employees. see item 1a. risk factors work stoppages and other labor relations matters may have an adverse effect on our financial results . 12 table of contents international operations our operations outside the u.s. are conducted through subsidiaries located in canada, mexico, south america, europe and asia. sales attributable to non-u.s. operations were 17.1% , 13.5% and 12.0% of our total net sales in fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, some of which were transacted in u.s. dollars. for more information about our non-u.s. operations, see note 20. segment information of the notes to consolidated financial statements. see item 1a. risk factors we are exposed to risks related to international sales and operations . available information our internet address is www.westrock.com . our internet address is included herein as an inactive textual reference only. the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference herein and should not be considered part of this report. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec and we make available free of charge most of our sec filings through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the sec. you may access these sec filings via the hyperlink that we provide on our website to a third-party sec filings website. we also make available on our website the charters of our audit committee, our compensation committee, our nominating and corporate governance committee, and our finance committee, as well as the corporate governance guidelines adopted by our board of directors, our code of business conduct for employees, our code of conduct and ethics for directors and our code of ethical conduct for ceo and senior financial officers. any amendments to, or waiver from, any provision of the codes will be posted on the our website at the address above. we will also provide copies of these documents, without charge, at the written request of any shareholder of record. requests for copies should be mailed to: westrock company, 504 thrasher street, norcross, georgia 30071, attention: corporate secretary. forward-looking information statements in this report that do not relate strictly to historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, beliefs, plans or forecasts and use words such as may , will , could , would , anticipate , intend , estimate , project , plan , believe , expect , target and potential , or refer to future time periods, and include statements made in this report regarding, among other things: our expectation that we will benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and the elimination of redundancies related to the combination, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration and to realize revenue synergies through an expanded and complementary product offering and increased geographic reach; our expectation of achieving a $1.0 billion annualized run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by september 30, 2018; our belief that should we incur production disruptions for recycled or virgin paperboard or containerboard we would be able to source replacement quantities internally or from other suppliers; our estimate for our capital expenditures in fiscal 2017 and that we expect our annual capital investment to continue in a similar range for the next three years, our belief that our strong balance sheet and cash flow provide us the flexibility to continue to invest to sustain and improve our operating performance; we expect to invest in projects in fiscal 2017 (i) to maintain and operate our mills and plants safely, reliably and in compliance with regulations, (ii) that support our strategy to improve the competitiveness of our mill and converting assets, (iii) to support our $1.0 billion annualized run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by september 30, 2018, and (iv) to generate attractive returns; we expect to complete our monetization program by the end of calendar 2018; our belief that the combination has combined two industry leaders to create a premier global provider of consumer and corrugated packaging solutions; our belief that the mills acquired in the sp fiber acquisition help balance the fiber mix of our mill system; our belief that the addition of kraft and bag paper from the sp fiber acquisition will diversify our product offering including our ability to serve the increasing demand for lighter weight containerboard and kraft paper; our belief that the partnership with grupo gondi will help grow our presence in the attractive mexican market; our belief that the quebec cap-and-trade program and other similar programs may require future expenditures to meet required ghg emission reduction requirements in future years; our belief that the acquisition of agi in-store supports our strategy to provide a more holistic portfolio of innovative in-store marketing solutions, including store-within-a-store displays, and has enhanced cross-selling opportunities and bolster our growing retail presence; our belief that the tacoma mill is a strategic fit and the mill has improved our ability to satisfy west coast customers and generate operating efficiencies across our containerboard system; our belief that npg is a strong strategic fit that has strengthened our displays business; we expect to contribute $30 million to our u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans in fiscal 2017, primarily related to our canadian plans; we estimate that minimum pension contributions to our u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans will be in the range of $22 million to $36 million annually in fiscal 2018 through 2021; our expectation that we will continue to make contributions in the coming years to our pension plans in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate in light of projected liabilities and to meet the requirements of the pension act and other regulations; our belief that certain mepps in which we participate have material unfunded vested benefits; although the plan data for fiscal 2016 is not yet available, we would expect to continue to exceed 5% of total plan contributions to certain mepps; a current annualized dividend of $1.60 per share on our common stock; our anticipation that we will be able to fund our capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends and stock 13 table of contents repurchases, pension payments, working capital needs, note repurchases, restructuring activities, repayments of current portion of long-term debt and other corporate actions for the foreseeable future from cash generated from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities, proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity securities or other additional long-term debt financing, including new or amended facilities; the effect of a hypothetical 10% increase on the prices of various commodities, freight and energy; our belief that there is not a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to estimate allowances; that based on our current projections, we expect to utilize our remaining u.s. federal net operating losses, alternative minimum tax and other u.s. federal credits primarily over the next three years; we expect to receive tax benefits in fiscal 2017 and future years from the u.s. manufacturer's deduction; we expect our cash tax payments to be in the high twenties in fiscal 2017 and for it to continue to move closer to our income tax expense in fiscal 2018 and 2019; our belief that integration activities will continue during fiscal 2017; our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity or capital resources, including expectations regarding sales growth, income tax rates, our production capacities and our ability to achieve operating efficiencies; the consummation of acquisitions and financial transactions, the effect of these transactions on our business and the valuation of assets acquired in these transactions; our competitive position and competitive conditions; our ability to obtain adequate replacement supplies of raw materials or energy; our relationships with our customers and employees; our plans and objectives for future operations and expansion; our belief that the currently expected outcome of any environmental proceeding or claim that is pending or threatened against us will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; the possibility that we may engage in additional restructuring opportunities in the future; our belief that we have properly contained asbestos and/or have trained our employees in an effort to ensure that no rules or regulations are violated in the maintenance of our facilities where asbestos is present; the impact of any gain or loss of a customer's business; our expectations surrounding credit loss rates; the impact of announced price changes; the scope, costs, timing and impact of any restructuring of our operations and corporate and tax structure including our expectation that the integration of closed facility's assets and production with other facilities will enable the receiving facilities to better leverage their fixed costs; factors considered in connection with any impairment analysis, the outcome of any such analysis and the anticipated impact of any such analysis on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; pension and retirement plan obligations, contributions, the factors used to evaluate and estimate such obligations and expenses, the impact of amendments to our pension and retirement plans, the impact of governmental regulations on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; pension and retirement plan asset investment strategies; potential liability for outstanding guarantees and indemnities and the potential impact of such liabilities; the impact of any market risks, such as interest rate risk, pension plan risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risks, energy price risk, rates of return, the risk of investments in derivative instruments, and the risk of counterparty nonperformance, and factors affecting those risks including our increased exposure to foreign currency as a result of the combination; the amount of contractual obligations based on variable price provisions and variable timing and the effect of contractual obligations on liquidity and cash flow in future periods; the implementation of accounting standards and the impact of these standards once implemented; factors used to calculate the fair value of financial instruments and other assets and liabilities; factors used to calculate the fair value of options, including expected term and stock price volatility; our assumptions and expectations regarding critical accounting policies and estimates; our recording of net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe such assets are more likely than not to be realized; the antitrust litigation and other lawsuits and claims arising out of the conduct of our business; our expectation that the adoption of the provisions of asu 2016-13, asu 2016-09, asu 2016-07, asu 2016-05 and asu 2015-11 will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements; our expectation that based on our current stock compensation awards, asu 2014-12 will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. with respect to these statements, we have made assumptions regarding, among other things, the results and impacts of the combination and the separation; our ability to effectively integrate the operations of rocktenn and mwv; economic, competitive and market conditions; volumes and price levels of purchases by customers; competitive conditions in our businesses; possible adverse actions of our customers, our competitors and suppliers; labor costs; the amount and timing of capital expenditures, including installation costs, project development and implementation costs, severance and other shutdown costs; restructuring costs; utilization of real property that is subject to the restructurings due to realizable values from the sale of such property; credit availability; volumes and price levels of purchases by customers; raw material and energy costs; and competitive conditions in our businesses. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements as such statements involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: the level of demand for our products; our ability to successfully identify and make performance improvements; anticipated returns on our capital investments; our ability to achieve benefits from acquisitions and the timing thereof; our belief that matters relating to previously identified third party prp sites and certain formerly owned facilities of smurfit-stone have been or will be satisfied claims in the smurfit-stone bankruptcy proceedings; the level of demand for our products; our belief that we can assert claims for indemnification pursuant to existing rights we have under settlement and purchase agreements in connection with certain of our existing environmental remediation sites; our belief that we have insurance coverage, subject to applicable deductibles and policy limits for certain environmental matters; our ability to successfully identify and make performance improvements; anticipated returns on our capital investments; uncertainties related to planned mill outages or production disruptions, including associated costs and 14 table of contents the length of those outages; the possibility of unplanned mill outages; investment performance, discount rates, return on pension plan assets and expected compensation levels; market risk from changes in, including but not limited to, interest rates and commodity prices; possible increases in energy, raw materials, shipping and capital equipment costs; any reduction in the supply of raw materials; fluctuations in selling prices and volumes; intense competition; the potential loss of certain customers; the timing and impact of afmc and cbpc; the impact of operational restructuring activities, including the cost and timing of such activities, the size and cost of employment terminations, operational consolidation, capacity utilization, cost reductions and production efficiencies; estimated fair values of assets, and returns from planned asset transactions, and the impact of such factors on earnings; potential liability for outstanding guarantees and indemnities and the potential impact of such liabilities; the impact of economic conditions, including the nature of the current market environment, raw material and energy costs and market trends or factors that affect such trends, such as expected price changes, competitive pricing pressures and cost increases, as well as the impact and continuation of such factors; our results of operations, including operational inefficiencies, costs, sales growth or declines; our desire or ability to continue to repurchase company stock; the timing and impact of customer transitioning, the impact of announced price increases or decreases and the impact of the gain and loss of customers; pension plan contributions and expense, funding requirements and earnings; environmental law liability as well as the impact of related compliance efforts, including the cost of required improvements and the availability of certain indemnification claims; capital expenditures; the cost and other effects of complying with governmental laws and regulations and the timing of such costs; the scope, and timing and outcome of any litigation, including the antitrust litigation or other dispute resolutions and the impact of any such litigation or other dispute resolutions on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; income tax rates, future deferred tax expense and future cash tax payments; future debt repayment; our ability to fund capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends and stock repurchases, pension payments, working capital needs, note repurchases, repayments of current portion of long term debt and other corporate actions for the foreseeable future from cash generated from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities, proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity securities or other additional long-term debt financing, including new or amended facilities; our estimates and assumptions regarding our contractual obligations and the impact of our contractual obligations on our liquidity and cash flow; the impact of changes in assumptions and estimates underlying accounting policies; the expected impact of implementing new accounting standards; the impact of changes in assumptions and estimates on which we based the design of our system of disclosure controls and procedures; the expected cash tax payments that may change due to changes in taxable income, tax laws or tax rates, capital expenditures or other factors; the occurrence of severe weather or a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flood, fire, or other unanticipated problems such as labor difficulties, equipment failure or unscheduled maintenance and repair, which could result in operational disruptions of varied duration; adverse changes in general market and industry conditions and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in item 1a. risk factors and by similar disclosures in any of our subsequent sec filings. the information contained herein speaks as of the date hereof and we do not have or undertake any obligation to update such information as future events unfold. item 1a. risk factors we are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more of them occur, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. in evaluating us, our business and a potential investment in our securities, you should consider the following risk factors and the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the sec. the risks addressed below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also adversely impact our business in the future. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the combination the success of the combination will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the rocktenn and mwv businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies, and achieves the identified projected cost savings and revenue growth trends. in connection with the combination, we set a $1.0 billion annualized run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by september 30, 2018. at september 30, 2016, we had achieved an annualized run rate of $500 million. we expected, and continue to expect, to (a) benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and the elimination of redundancies, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration and (b) realize revenue synergies through an expanded and complementary product offering and increased geographic reach. however, we must successfully combine the rocktenn and mwv businesses in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. in addition, we must achieve the anticipated cost savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. achieving the anticipated benefits of the combination is subject to a number of uncertainties, including market conditions, risks related to our businesses and whether we consolidate certain businesses and functions of rocktenn and mwv in an efficient, effective and timely manner. in particular, we may face significant challenges integrating the companies' technologies, 15 table of contents organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in their business cultures and retaining key personnel. the integration may also be more difficult, complex, costly and time consuming than we expect, and the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the combination may disrupt ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers and others with whom rocktenn and mwv had business or other dealings or limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the combination. if we are not able to successfully combine the rocktenn and mwv businesses within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected cost savings and synergies and other benefits of the combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected, the combined businesses may not perform as expected, management's time and energy may be diverted, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. we may experience pricing variability our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue experiencing, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. prices for our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products and competitive conditions in our industry, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which may be unpredictable and volatile. if supply exceeds demand, prices for our products could decline, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. further, certain published indices contribute to the setting of selling prices for some of our products. future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact selling prices. our earnings are highly dependent on volumes because our operations generally have high fixed operating cost components, our earnings are highly dependent on volumes, which tend to fluctuate. these fluctuations make it difficult to predict our financial results with any degree of certainty. any failure to maintain volumes may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials, energy sources and third-party companies to transport our goods. the cost of recovered paper and virgin fiber, the principal externally sourced raw materials for our mills, are subject to pricing variability due to market and industry conditions. increasing demand for products packaged in 100% recycled paper, greater demand for u.s. sourced recovered paper by asian-based paper manufacturers, and the shift by manufacturers of virgin paperboard, tissue, newsprint and corrugated packaging to the production of products with some recycled paper content have and may continue to increase demand for recovered paper, which may result in cost increases. certain published indices contribute to price setting for some of our raw materials. future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact pricing. at times, the cost of natural gas, which we use in many of our manufacturing operations, including many of our mills, and other energy costs (including energy generated by burning natural gas, fuel oil, biomass and coal) have fluctuated significantly. high energy costs could increase our operating costs and make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors. we distribute our products primarily by truck and rail, although we also distribute some of our products by cargo ship. reduced availability of trucks, rail cars or cargo ships could negatively impact our ability to ship our products in a timely manner, and high transportation costs could make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors. because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we may not be able to recoup past or future increases in the cost of raw materials, energy or transportation through price increases for our products. the failure to obtain raw materials, energy or transportation services at reasonable market prices (or the failure to pass on price increases to our customers) or a reduction in the availability of raw materials, energy or transportation services due to increased demand or other factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition we compete in industries that are highly competitive, and no single company dominates an industry. our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. we generally compete with companies operating in north america, although we have operations spanning north america, south america, europe and asia. 16 table of contents competition from domestic or non-u.s. lower cost or more innovative manufacturers in the future could adversely impact our sales volumes and pricing, as could other actions taken by our competitors, including reducing the prices of their products, improving the quality of their products or enhancing their marketing or sales activities. to the extent one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. customer shifts away from paperboard and containerboard packaging to packaging from other materials could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, integrating and maintaining mergers, acquisitions and investments we have completed several mergers, acquisitions and investments in recent years, and we may acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. we may not be able to identify suitable targets or successfully complete suitable transactions in the future and completed transactions may not be successful. these transactions create risks, including, but not limited to: disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and personnel into our business; inability to achieve expected synergies; working with partners or other ownership structures with shared decision-making authority; difficulties in obtaining and verifying relevant information regarding a business prior to the consummation of the transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill; problems retaining key employees, contractual relationships or customers; additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest; the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company; dilution of interests of holders of our common stock through the issuance of equity securities; for non-u.s. transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as they may not be successful. the separation could result in substantial tax liability to us and to those of our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation we have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the separation qualifies as a transaction that is described in sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from ingevity and us regarding the past and future conduct of each of the two companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings prove to be incorrect or not satisfied, or if the irs otherwise determines on audit that the separation is taxable, our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation and/or we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. if the separation is determined to be taxable, those of our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation and/or we could be subject to a substantial tax liability. if the separation is determined to be taxable to those of our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation, each of those stockholders would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the ingevity shares received. even if the separation otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction to those of our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation, the distribution could be taxable to us in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of ingevity are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the separation. in this event, the resulting tax liability would be substantial. in connection with the separation, we entered into a tax matters agreement with ingevity, pursuant to which ingevity agreed (i) to not engage in certain transactions that could cause the separation to be taxable to us and (ii) to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such a transaction. the indemnity from ingevity may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities. any tax liabilities resulting from the separation or 17 table of contents related transactions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the separation we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with ingevity to govern the separation and the relationship of the two companies going forward. these agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and ingevity. the indemnity rights we have against ingevity under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. in addition, our indemnity obligations to ingevity may be significant and these risks could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may be adversely affected by economic and financial market conditions, and social and political change our businesses may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic and business conditions, changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions in the financial services markets, including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, the impact of a stronger u.s. dollar or changes in u.s social and political change impacting matters such as environmental regulations, non-u.s. trade policies, or other factors, each of which may adversely impact our ability to compete. macro-economic challenges, including conditions in financial and capital markets and levels of unemployment, and the ability of the u.s. and other countries to address their rising debt levels may continue to put pressure on the economy or lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates. changes in tax laws or tax rates may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. adverse developments in the u.s. and global economy, including locations such as europe, brazil, india and china, could adversely affect the demand for our products, our revenues and manufacturing costs. we are not able to predict with certainty economic and financial market conditions, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected by adverse market conditions. our joint ventures may limit our flexibility with respect to these jointly owned investments we have invested in a number of joint ventures with other entities when circumstances warranted the use of these structures, and we may form additional joint ventures in the future. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: experiencing an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve impasses or potential disputes; inability to maintain good relationships with our partners, which could limit our future growth potential; conflict of interest issues if our partners have competing interests in our markets; conflicting investment or operational goals with our partners, including the timing, terms and strategies for investments or future growth opportunities; failure by our partners to fund their share of required capital contributions or to otherwise fulfill their obligations as partners, which may require us to infuse our own capital into these ventures on behalf of the related partner despite other competing uses for capital; and obtaining consents from our partners for any sale or other disposition of our interest in a joint venture or underlying assets of the joint venture. our investment in grupo gondi may require us to utilize our cash flow or incur additional indebtedness to satisfy certain payment obligations in connection with our investment in the joint venture with grupo gondi, we entered into an option agreement pursuant to which we and certain shareholders of grupo gondi agreed to future put and call options with respect to the equity interests in the joint venture held by each party. these put and call arrangements may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of these arrangements, which may reduce the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures and corporate development activities. similarly, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of these arrangements. we are exposed to risks related to international sales and operations we predominately operate in u.s. markets, but derive a portion of our total sales from outside the u.s. through international operations or exports to foreign customers. we are exposed to risks of operating in many countries, including, but not limited to: 18 table of contents difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the u.s.; political and economic instability; import and export restrictions and other trade barriers; difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations; difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions; government limitations on foreign ownership; government takeover or nationalization of business; government mandated price controls; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. any one or more of these risks could adversely affect our international operations and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. the future success of our international operations could be adversely affected by violations or alleged violations of the anti-bribery laws the fcpa, and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws, including those in brazil, mexico and india (where we maintain operations directly or through a joint venture), prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the fcpa. our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, may not adequately protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed or alleged to be committed by our employees, agents or vendors. any such allegations could lead to civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties and/or could damage our reputation. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we depend on certain large customers each of our corrugated packaging and consumer packaging segments has large customers, the loss of which could adversely affect the segment's sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. in particular, because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for new business or for the renewal of existing business. the loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may adversely impact our financial results. we may incur business disruptions the operations at our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted or impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to: catastrophic events, such as fires, floods, explosions, natural disasters, severe weather or other similar occurrences; interruptions in the delivery of raw materials or other manufacturing inputs; adverse government regulations; equipment breakdowns or failures; unscheduled maintenance; information system failures; violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits; releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or ground water; shortages of equipment or spare parts; and labor disputes. the occurrence of any of these events may impair our production capabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. our net income could be negatively affected if interest rates increase we maintain levels of fixed and floating rate debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows (and other financial metrics) and business outlook, and these levels may vary over time. our floating rate debt exposes us to changes in interest rates. 19 table of contents we utilize fixed rate debt and, from time to time, derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. however, our financial risk management may not be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business some of our outstanding indebtedness has received credit ratings from rating agencies. these ratings are limited in scope and do not purport to address all risks relating to an investment in those debt securities. our credit ratings could change based on, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and they may be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency or placed on a so-called watch list for a possible downgrade or assigned a negative ratings outlook if, in any rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. if a downgrade or negative outlook were to occur, it could impact our ability to access the capital markets to raise debt and/or increase the cost thereof. in addition, while our credit ratings are important to us, we may take actions and otherwise operate our business in a manner that adversely affects our credit ratings. we are subject to extensive and costly environmental and other governmental regulation we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances, the regulation of chemicals used in our operations, as well as other financial and non-financial regulations, including items such as air and water quality, the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater, standards applicable to our finished products and matters related to the health and safety of employees. we regularly make capital expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. however, environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent. consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. in addition, we cannot currently assess the impact of future changes in governmental regulations, including future emissions standards (such as regulations on emissions from certain industrial boilers), climate change initiatives and government's enforcement practices will have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. further, we are responsible for conducting environmental investigation and cleanup activities at current and formerly owned sites. we also have been identified as a prp at various third-party disposal sites pursuant to u.s. federal or state statutes. any liability we may incur in connection with these or other sites at which we may be identified in the future as a responsible party or in connection with other governmental requirements, including capital investments or business disruptions associated with regulatory compliance, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. in addition, our operations also consume significant amounts of energy, and we may incur additional indirect costs as a result of changes in costs of energy due to increased climate-related and other environmental regulations. our capital expenditures may not achieve the desired outcome or may be achieved at a higher cost than anticipated we regularly make capital expenditures with respect to our manufacturing facilities. many of our projects are complex, costly and are implemented over an extended period of time. consequently, our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated, we may experience unanticipated business disruptions and/or we may not achieve the desired benefits from these projects. should these types of conditions and risks occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may incur additional restructuring costs and may not realize expected benefits from restructuring we have restructured portions of our operations from time to time, including in connection with the combination, and we may engage in additional restructuring initiatives. because we are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, including changes in the supply and demand for our products, the loss of large customers or the selling prices for our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty when it will be appropriate to undertake restructurings. the costs associated with these activities will vary depending upon the type of facility impacted, with the non-cash cost of a mill closure generally being more significant than that of a converting facility due to the higher level of fixed costs. it is also possible, in connection with these restructuring efforts, that our costs could be higher than we anticipate and that we may not realize the expected benefits. 20 table of contents work stoppages and other labor relations matters may have an adverse effect on our financial results a significant number of our union employees are governed by cbas. expired contracts are in the process of renegotiation, and others expire within one year. we may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts without work stoppages or labor difficulties or renegotiate them on favorable terms. we have experienced work stoppages in the past and we may experience work stoppages in the future. if we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements or an industry association is unable to successfully negotiate a national agreement when it expires, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. we may incur increased employee benefit costs and certain of our pension plans will likely require additional cash contributions employee healthcare costs continue to rise. our pension contribution and health care benefits costs depend on multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. following the combination, westrock merged mwv's u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plans into the rock-tenn company consolidated pension plan, and renamed the merged plan the westrock company consolidated pension plan. the westrock company consolidated pension plan is over funded. we expect to make future contributions primarily to our non-u.s. pension plans in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate and meet regulatory requirements. the actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be highly sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets, and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. our pension plan assets are primarily made up of fixed income, equity and alternative investments. fluctuations in market performance of these assets and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels or mortality could also increase or decrease pension costs. these changes, along with turmoil in financial and capital markets, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may incur increased funding requirements in the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate we participate in several mepps administered by labor unions that provide retirement benefits to certain union employees in accordance with various cbas. as one of many participating employers in these plans, we are generally responsible with the other participating employers for any plan underfunding. our contributions to a particular mepp are established by the applicable cbas; however, our required contributions may increase based on the funded status of a mepp and legal requirements such as those of the pension act, which requires substantially underfunded mepps to implement a funding improvement plan or a rehabilitation plan to improve their funded status. we believe certain of the mepps in which we participate have material unfunded vested benefits. due to uncertainty regarding future factors that could trigger a withdrawal liability, including partial withdrawal liabilities triggered by facility closures, as well as the absence of specific information regarding matters such as the mepps' current financial situation due in part to delays in reporting, the potential withdrawal or bankruptcy of other contributing employers, the impact of future plan performance or the success of current and future funding improvement or rehabilitation plans to restore solvency to the plans, we are unable to determine with certainty the amount and timing of any future withdrawal liability, changes in future funding obligations or the impact of increased contributions including those that could be triggered by a mass withdrawal of other employers from a mepp. mepps may also be significantly impacted by changes in legislation and actions taken by particular mepp trustees. the impact of increased contributions, future funding obligations or future withdrawal liabilities may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we are subject to cyber-security risks related to customer, employee, vendor or other company data we use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. we rely on various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. our systems are subject to repeated attempts by third parties to access information or to disrupt our systems. despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, we may become subject to cyber-attacks that could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data. such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. 21 table of contents we depend on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products and to acquire and retain intellectual property rights our ability to develop and successfully market new products and to develop, acquire and retain necessary intellectual property rights is important to our continued success and competitive position. if we were unable to protect our existing intellectual property rights, develop new rights, or if others developed similar or improved technologies our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. our real estate development activities are subject to challenges we engage in value-added real estate development activities in the charleston, sc region, including obtaining entitlements and establishing joint ventures and other development-related arrangements. our ability to execute our plans to realize the greater value associated with our development land holdings may be affected by the following factors, among others: general economic conditions, including credit markets and interest rates; local real estate market conditions, including competition from sellers of land and real estate developers; and impact of federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting land use, land use entitlements, land protection and zoning. any failure to execute our plans could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. accounts receivable and allowances we have an allowance for doubtful accounts, credits, returns and allowances, and cash discounts that serve to reduce the value of our gross accounts receivable to the amount we estimate we will ultimately collect. the allowances contain uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions and apply judgment regarding our customers' credit worthiness and the credits, returns and allowances and cash discounts that may be taken by our customers. we perform ongoing evaluations of our customers' financial condition and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the particular customer's current credit worthiness, as determined by our review of their current financial information. we continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our customers' financial condition, our collection experience and any other relevant customer specific information. our assessment of this and other information forms the basis of our allowances. we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to estimate the allowances. however, while these credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions we established, it is possible that our credit loss rates could be higher or lower in the future depending on changes in business conditions and changes in our customers' credit worthiness. at september 30, 2016 , our accounts receivable, net of allowances of $ 36.5 million , was $1,592.2 million ; a 1% additional loss on accounts receivable would change our allowance by $15.9 million and a 5% change in our allowance assumptions would change our allowance by $1.8 million. goodwill and long-lived assets we review the carrying value of our goodwill annually at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed fair value as set forth in asc 350, intangibles goodwill and other. see note 7. discontinued operations of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information on the first quarter of fiscal 2016 goodwill impairment test and resulting charge. we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. a component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. however, two or more components of an operating segment are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics. the amount of goodwill acquired in a business combination that is assigned to one or more reporting units as of the acquisition 45 table of contents date is the excess of the purchase price of the acquired businesses (or portion thereof) included in the reporting unit, over the fair value assigned to the individual assets acquired or liabilities assumed. goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit(s) expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination even though other assets or liabilities of the acquired entity may not be assigned to that reporting unit. we determine recoverability by comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill applies to the carrying value, including goodwill, of that reporting unit using a discounted cash flow model. we also consider the market approach using implied public and private multiples. our discounted cash flow analysis is based on the sum of two components, the present value of our projected cash flows and the present value of a terminal value. the cash flow estimates are derived from our current forecast and our long-term forecasts prepared for each reporting unit considering historical results and anticipated future performance and capital expenditures, and require considerable judgment. the discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows were derived from a weighted average cost of capital analysis utilizing a beta that is derived from peer companies. in addition, we gave consideration in the calculation of the weighted average cost of capital for equity risks including size risk, industry risk and country specific risk, as appropriate, for each of our reporting units. as a result of the weighted average cost of capital calculations, our discount rate used for each reporting unit ranged from 8% to 14%. we use perpetual growth rates in the reporting units ranging from 1% to 5%. estimating the fair value of the reporting unit involves uncertainties because it requires management to develop numerous assumptions, including assumptions about the future growth and potential volatility in revenues and costs, capital expenditures, industry economic factors and future business strategy. the variability of the factors that management uses to perform the goodwill impairment test depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and cash flows, including anticipated changes in revenues and costs and synergies and productivity improvements resulting from the acquisitions, capital expenditures and continuous improvement projects. all such factors are interdependent and, therefore, do not change in isolation. accordingly, our accounting estimates may materially change from period to period due to changing market factors. if we had used other assumptions and estimates or if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted. any significant adverse changes in key assumptions about these businesses and their prospects, such as changes in our strategy or products, the loss of key customers, regulatory changes or adverse changes in economic and market conditions may cause a change in the estimated fair values of our reporting units and could result in an impairment charge that could be material to our financial statements. as a result of the fiscal 2015 combination and the corresponding fair value accounting, several of our reporting units' fair value exceeds their carrying value by a limited margin. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 , of reporting units that have goodwill, our consumer packaging and brazil corrugated reporting units had a fair value which exceeded their carrying value by less than 10%. if we had concluded that it was appropriate to increase the discount rate we used by 100 basis point to estimate the fair value of each reporting units that has goodwill, the fair value for each of our reporting units would have continued to exceed its carrying value except for the consumer packaging and brazil corrugated reporting units. the consumer packaging and brazil corrugated reporting units had $2,657.2 million and $172.3 million of goodwill at september 30, 2016 , respectively. no events have occurred since the latest annual goodwill impairment assessment that would necessitate an interim goodwill impairment assessment. included in our long-lived assets are certain intangible assets. these intangible assets are amortized based on the approximate pattern in which the economic benefits are consumed or straight-line if the pattern was not reliably determinable. estimated useful lives range from 1 to 40 years and have a weighted average life of approximately 17.9 years. we identify the weighted average lives of our intangible assets by category in note 9. other intangible assets of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we follow the provisions included in asc 360, property, plant and equipment, in determining whether the carrying value of any of our long-lived assets is impaired. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on legal factors, market conditions and operational performance. future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that assets associated with a particular operation are impaired. evaluating the impairment also requires us to estimate future operating results and cash flows, which also require judgment by management. any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we have not made any material changes to our impairment loss assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate impairment losses. however, if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. restructuring our restructuring and other costs, net include primarily items such as restructuring portions of our operations, acquisition costs, integration costs and divestiture costs. we have restructured portions of our operations from time to time, have current 46 table of contents restructuring initiatives taking place, and it is possible that we may engage in additional restructuring activities in the future. identifying and calculating the cost to exit these operations requires certain assumptions to be made, the most significant of which are anticipated future liabilities, including leases and other contractual obligations, and the adjustment of property, plant and equipment to net realizable value. we believe our estimates are reasonable, considering our knowledge of the industries we operate in, previous experience in exiting activities and valuations we may obtain from independent third parties. although our estimates have been reasonably accurate in the past, significant judgment is required, and these estimates and assumptions may change as additional information becomes available and facts or circumstances change. business combinations from time to time, we may enter into business combinations. in accordance with asc 805, business combinations , we generally recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in an acquiree at their fair values as of the date of acquisition. we measure goodwill as the excess of consideration transferred, which we also measure at fair value, over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the acquisition method of accounting requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair values of the elements of a business combination as of the date of acquisition, including the fair values of identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, contingent consideration and contingencies. this method also requires us to refine these estimates over a measurement period not to exceed one year to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. if we are required to retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions, these adjustments could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. significant estimates and assumptions in estimating the fair value of acquired technology, customer relationships, and other identifiable intangible assets include future cash flows that we expect to generate from the acquired assets. if the subsequent actual results and updated projections of the underlying business activity change compared with the assumptions and projections used to develop these values, we could record impairment charges. in addition, we have estimated the economic lives of certain acquired assets and these lives are used to calculate depreciation and amortization expense. if our estimates of the economic lives change, depreciation or amortization expenses could be increased or decreased, or the acquired asset could be impaired. fair value of financial instruments and nonfinancial assets and liabilities we define fair value as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. financial instruments not recognized at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivables, certain other current assets, short-term debt, accounts payable, certain other current liabilities and long-term debt. with the exception of long-term debt, the carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate their fair values due to their short maturities. the fair values of our long-term debt are estimated using quoted market prices or are based on the discounted value of future cash flows. we have, or from time to time may have, financial instruments recognized at fair value including supplemental plans that are nonqualified deferred compensation plans pursuant to which assets are invested primarily in mutual funds, interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives or other similar class of assets or liabilities. other than the fair value of our long-term debt and our pension and postretirement assets and liabilities disclosed in note 10. debt and note 14. retirement plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements, the fair value of these items is not significant. we measure the fair value of our mutual fund investments based on quoted prices in active markets, and our derivative contracts, if any, based on discounted cash flows. we measure certain nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. these assets and liabilities include cost and equity method investments when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a merger or an acquisition or in a nonmonetary exchange, and property, plant and equipment and goodwill and other intangible assets that are written down to fair value when they are held for sale or determined to be impaired. given the nature of nonfinancial assets and liabilities, evaluating their fair value from the perspective of a market participant is inherently complex. assumptions and estimates about future values can be affected by a variety of internal and external factors. changes in these factors may require us to revise our estimates and could result in future impairment charges for goodwill and acquired intangible assets, or retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with business combinations. these adjustments could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we discuss fair values in more detail in note 11. fair value of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 47 table of contents accounting for income taxes our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, reflect management's best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense. deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amount in the financial statements, which will result in deductible amounts in the future. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent operations. in projecting future taxable income, we incorporate assumptions about the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. in evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating income (loss). we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense in the consolidated statements of operations. a 1% change in our effective tax rate would increase or decrease tax expense by approximately $2.4 million for fiscal 2016 . a 1% change in our effective tax rate used to compute deferred tax liabilities and assets, as recorded on the september 30, 2016 consolidated balance sheet, would increase or decrease tax expense by approximately $89.1 million for fiscal 2016 . pension and other postretirement benefits certain of our employees in the united states, canada and other countries are currently accruing pension benefits. in addition, under several labor contracts, we make payments based on hours worked into mepp trusts established for the benefit of certain collective bargaining employees in facilities both inside and outside the united states. we also have a supplemental executive retirement plan and other unfunded defined benefit plans that provide unfunded supplemental retirement benefits to certain of our current and former executives. the determination of our obligation and expense for these plans is dependent on our selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. we describe these assumptions in note 14. retirement plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements, which include, among others, the discount rate, mortality rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and expected rates of increase in compensation levels. although there is authoritative guidance on how to select most of these assumptions, management must exercise judgment when selecting these assumptions. we evaluate these assumptions with our actuarial advisors on an annual basis, and we believe they are within accepted industry ranges, although an increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our control could have a direct impact on recorded obligations and reported net earnings. the funded status of our qualified and non-qualified u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans decreased $287.3 million in fiscal 2016. our u.s. qualified and non-qualified pension plans are overfunded $69.8 million and our non-u.s. pension plans are underfunded $151.1 million. the u.s. pension plans' funded status was negatively impacted by a 66 basis point decrease in the discount rate compared to the prior measurement date, and our non-u.s. pension plan obligations were negatively impacted by an 81 basis point decrease in the discount rate compared to the prior measurement date. a 25 basis point change in the discount rate, compensation level, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets or medical cost trend, factoring in our corridor as appropriate, would have had the following effect on fiscal 2016 pension and other postretirement expense (amounts in the table in parentheses reflect additional income, in millions): pension plans postretirement plans 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease discount rate $ 0.9 $ 13.3 $ (0.2 ) $ 0.1 compensation level 0.3 (0.3 ) n/a n/a expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (17.3 ) 17.3 n/a n/a medical cost trend n/a n/a 0.1 (0.1 ) 48 table of contents new accounting standards see note 1. description of business and summary of significant accounting policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective expected dates of adoption and expected effects on results of operations and financial condition. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in, including but not limited to, interest rates, foreign currencies and commodity prices. our objective is to identify and understand these risks and then implement strategies to manage them. when evaluating these strategies, we evaluate the fundamentals of each market, our sensitivity to movements in pricing, and underlying accounting and business implications. to implement these strategies, we may enter into various hedging transactions. the sensitivity analyses we present below do not consider the effect of possible adverse changes in the general economy, nor do they consider additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. our effort to manage or continue to manage any of these risks in the future may not be successful. containerboard and paperboard shipments we are exposed to market risk related to our sales of containerboard and paperboard. we sell a significant portion of our mill production and converted products pursuant to contracts that provide that prices are either fixed for specified terms or provide for price adjustments based on negotiated terms, including changes in specified index prices. we have the capacity to annually ship approximately 9.2 million tons in our corrugated packaging segment and approximately 4.2 million tons in our consumer packaging segment. although our mill system operating rates may vary from year to year due to changes in market and other factors, our simple average mill system operating rates for the last three years averaged 95%. a hypothetical $10 per ton decrease in the price of paperboard throughout the year based on our capacity would decrease our sales by approximately $92 million and $42 million in our corrugated packaging and consumer packaging segments, respectively. see item 1a. risk factors our earnings are highly dependent on volumes . energy energy is one of the most significant costs of our mill operations. the cost of natural gas, coal, oil, electricity and wood by-products (biomass) at times have fluctuated significantly. in our recycled paperboard mills, we use primarily natural gas and electricity, supplemented with fuel oil and coal to generate steam used in the paper making process and to operate our recycled paperboard machines. in our virgin fiber mills, we use biomass, natural gas, coal and fuel oil to generate steam used in the paper making process, to generate some or all of the electricity used on site and to operate our paper machines. we primarily use electricity and natural gas to operate our converting facilities. we generally purchase these products from suppliers at market or tariff rates. we spent approximately $671 million on all energy sources in fiscal 2016 to operate our facilities. natural gas accounted for approximately two-fifths (approximately 69 million mmbtu) of our total energy purchases in fiscal 2016. a hypothetical 10% increase in the price of energy throughout the year would increase our cost of energy by approximately $67 million based on fiscal 2016 pricing and consumption. recycled fiber the principal raw material we use in the production of recycled paperboard and a portion of our containerboard is recycled fiber. in fiscal 2016 , our purchases of old corrugated containers and double-lined kraft clippings accounted for our largest recycled fiber costs and approximately 90% of our recycled fiber purchases. the remaining 10% of our recycled fiber purchases consisted of a number of other grades of recycled paper. the mix of recycled fiber may vary due to factors such as market demand, availability and pricing. a hypothetical 10% increase in recycled fiber prices in our mills for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $68 million. virgin fiber the principal raw material we use in the production of a portion of our containerboard, bleached paperboard and market pulp is virgin fiber. a hypothetical 10% increase in virgin fiber prices in our mills for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $118 million. 49 table of contents freight inbound and outbound freight is a significant expenditure for us. factors that influence our freight expense are items such as distance between our shipping and delivery locations, distance from customers and suppliers, mode of transportation (rail, truck, intermodal and ocean) and freight rates, which are influenced by supply and demand and fuel costs, primarily diesel. a hypothetical 10% increase for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $122 million, of which approximately one-fifth would be the portion related to higher diesel costs based on our estimated 87 million gallons consumed annually. see item 1a. risk factors we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation . interest rates we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily as a result of our short-term and long-term debt. we may from time to time use interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate characteristics of a portion of our outstanding debt. based on the amounts and mix of our fixed and floating rate debt at september 30, 2016 , if market interest rates increase an average of 100 basis points, our annual interest expense would increase by approximately $22 million. we determined these amounts by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on our borrowing costs. this analysis does not consider the effects of changes in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. see item 1a. risk factors our net income could be negatively affected if interest rates increase . pension plans our pension plans are influenced by trends in the financial markets and the regulatory environment. adverse general stock market trends and falling interest rates increase plan costs and liabilities. during fiscal 2016 , the effect of a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by approximately $13.3 million and a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by $0.9 million. during fiscal 2015, the effect of a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by approximately $12.8 million and a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by $0.8 million. similarly, mepps in which we participate could experience similar circumstances which could impact our funding requirements and therefore expenses. we discuss our mepps in note 14. retirement plans multiemployer plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements. see item 1a. risk factors we may incur increased employee benefit costs and certain of our pension plans will likely require additional cash contributions . foreign currency we have foreign-based operations, primarily in canada, south america, mexico, europe and asia, which accounted for approximately 17% of our net sales in fiscal 2016, some of which is transacted in u.s. dollars. in addition, certain of our domestic operations have sales to foreign customers. in conducting our foreign operations, we also make inter-company sales and receive royalties and dividends denominated in many different currencies. all of this exposes us to the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. flows of foreign currencies into and out of our operations are generally stable and regularly occurring and are recorded at fair market value in our financial statements. our foreign currency management policy permits us to enter into foreign currency hedges when these flows exceed a threshold, which is a function of these cash flows and forecasted annual operations. we issue inter-company loans to and receive foreign cash deposits from our foreign subsidiaries in their local currencies, exposing us to the effect of changes in spot exchange rates between loan issue and loan repayment dates for the inter-company loans and changes in spot exchange rates from deposit date for foreign cash deposits. from time to time, we may use foreign-exchange hedge contracts with terms of generally less than one year to hedge these exposures. although our derivative and other foreign currency sensitive instruments expose us to market risk, fluctuations in the value of these instruments are mitigated by expected offsetting fluctuations in the matched exposures. during fiscal 2016 and 2015 , the effect of a hypothetical 10% change in foreign segment income driven by exchange rates would have impacted our segment results by approximately $23 million and $17 million , respectively. for more information about our foreign operations, see note 20. segment information of the notes to consolidated financial statements. during fiscal 2016 and 2015 , the effect of a 1% change in exchange rates would have impacted accumulated other comprehensive income by approximately $28 million and $25 million, respectively. this impact does not consider the effects of a stronger or weaker dollar on our ability to compete for export business or the overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. changes in foreign exchange rates could impact the price and therefore also the demand for our products. see item 1a. risk factors we may be adversely affected by economic and financial market conditions, and social and political change . 50 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation . energy energy is one of the most significant costs of our mill operations. the cost of natural gas, coal, oil, electricity and wood by-products (biomass) can fluctuate significantly. in our recycled paperboard mills, we use primarily natural gas and electricity, supplemented with coal and fuel oil to generate steam used in the paper making process and, at a few mills, to generate electricity used on site. in our virgin fiber mills, we use biomass, natural gas and coal to generate steam used in the pulping and paper making processes and to generate some or all of the electricity used on site. we primarily use electricity and natural gas to operate our converting facilities. we generally purchase these products from suppliers at market or tariff rates. see also item 1. business governmental regulation environmental and other matters for additional information. see also item 1a. risk factors we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation . 9 table of contents transportation inbound and outbound freight is a significant expenditure for us. factors that influence our freight expense are distance between our shipping and delivery locations, distance from customers and suppliers, mode of transportation (rail, truck, intermodal and ocean) and freight rates, which are influenced by supply and demand and fuel costs. the principal markets for our products are in north america, south america, europe, asia and australia. see item 1a. risk factors we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation . sales and marketing our top 10 external customers represented approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2017 . none of these customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales. we generally manufacture our products pursuant to customers' orders. we believe that we have good relationships with our customers. in fiscal 2017 , products sold to our top 10 customers by segment represented 16% and 18% of our external sales in our corrugated packaging segment and consumer packaging segment, respectively. see item 1a. risk factors we depend on certain large customers . as a result of our vertical integration, our mills' sales volumes may be directly impacted by changes in demand for our packaging products. during fiscal 2017 , we sold approximately two-thirds of our coated natural kraft production and approximately one-fifth of our bleached paperboard production to our converting operations, primarily to manufacture folding and beverage cartons, and we sold approximately three-fourths of our containerboard production, including trade swaps and buy/sell transactions, to our converting operations to manufacture corrugated products. under the terms of our seven hills joint venture arrangement, our joint venture partner is required to purchase all of the qualifying gypsum paperboard liner produced by seven hills. excluding the seven hills production and our aurora, il production converted into book covers and other products, we supplied approximately two-fifths of our specialty recycled paperboard production in fiscal 2017 to our converting operations, primarily to manufacture interior partitions. we have the ability to move our internal sourcing among certain of our mills to optimize the efficiency of our operations. we market our products primarily through our own sales force. we also market a number of our products through independent sales representatives, independent distributors or both. we generally pay our sales personnel a combination of base salary, commissions and annual bonus. we pay our independent sales representatives on a commission basis. we discuss foreign net sales to unaffiliated customers and other non-u.s. operations financial and other segment information in note 21. segment information of the notes to consolidated financial statements. competition we operate in a competitive global marketplace and compete with many large, well established and highly competitive manufacturers and service providers. our business is affected by a range of macroeconomic conditions, including industry capacity changes, global competition, economic conditions in the u.s. and abroad, as well as fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the industries we operate in are highly competitive, and no single company dominates any of those industries. our paperboard and containerboard operations compete with integrated and non-integrated national and regional companies operating primarily in north america, and to a limited extent, manufacturers outside of north america. our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. in the corrugated packaging and folding and beverage carton markets, we compete with a significant number of national, regional and local packaging suppliers in north america and abroad. in the solid fiber interior packaging, promotional point-of-purchase display and converted paperboard products markets, we primarily compete with a smaller number of national, regional and local companies offering highly specialized products. our recycled fiber brokerage and collection operations compete with various other companies for the procurement and supply of recovered paper, including brokers and companies that export recovered paper to international markets. the land and development segment competes in the real estate sales and development market, primarily in the charleston, sc region. because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for sales opportunities to customers for new business or for renewal of existing business. our packaging products compete with packaging made from other materials. the primary competitive factors we face include price, design, product innovation, quality and service, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line and customer preferences. we believe that we compete effectively with respect to each of these factors and we evaluate our performance with annual customer surveys, among other means. the businesses we operate in have undergone consolidation. within the packaging products industry, larger customers, with an expanded geographic presence, have tended to seek suppliers who can, because of their broad geographic presence, efficiently 10 table of contents and economically supply all or a range of their packaging needs. in addition, our customers continue to demand higher quality products meeting stricter quality control requirements. see item 1a. risk factors we face intense competition and risk factors we may be adversely affected by u.s. and worldwide economic and financial market conditions, and social and political change . governmental regulation health and safety regulations our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, including osha and related regulations. osha, among other things, establishes asbestos and noise standards and regulates the use of hazardous chemicals in the workplace. although we do not use asbestos in manufacturing our products, acm is present in some of our facilities. for those facilities where acm is present, we have established procedures for properly managing the material, including, but not limited to, employee training and work practices to maintain the acm in good condition and minimize exposure. we do not believe that future compliance with health and safety laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. environmental and other matters environmental compliance requirements are a significant factor affecting our business. we employ manufacturing processes that result in various discharges, emissions and wastes. these processes are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations, as well as the requirements of environmental permits and similar authorizations issued by various governmental authorities. on january 31, 2013, the epa published a set of four interrelated final rules establishing national air emissions standards for hazardous air pollutants from industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters, commonly known as boiler mact . boiler mact required compliance by january 31, 2016 or by january 31, 2017 for those mills for which we obtained a prior compliance extension. all work required for our boilers to comply with the rule has been completed. on july 29, 2016, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit issued a ruling on the consolidated cases challenging boiler mact. the court vacated key portions of the rule, including emission limits for certain subcategories of solid fuel boilers, and remanded other issues to the epa for further rulemaking. at this time, we cannot predict with certainty how this decision will impact our existing boiler mact strategies or whether we will incur additional costs to comply with any revised boiler mact standards. in addition to boiler mact, we are subject to a number of other federal, state, local and international environmental rules that may impact our business, including the national ambient air quality standards for nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter and ozone for facilities in the u.s. we are involved in various administrative proceedings relating to environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business, and may be involved in future matters. although the ultimate outcome of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty and we cannot at this time estimate any reasonably possible losses based on available information, we do not believe that the currently expected outcome of any environmental proceedings and claims that are pending or threatened against us will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. see item 1a. risk factors we are subject to extensive and costly safety and environmental laws and regulation . cercla and other remediation costs we face potential liability under federal, state, local and international laws as a result of releases, or threatened releases, of hazardous substances into the environment from various sites owned and operated by third parties at which company-generated wastes have allegedly been deposited. generators of hazardous substances sent to off-site disposal locations at which environmental problems exist, as well as the owners of those sites and certain other classes of persons, are liable for response costs for the investigation and remediation of such sites under cercla and analogous laws. while joint and several liability is authorized under cercla, liability is typically shared with other prps and costs are commonly allocated according to relative amounts of waste deposited and other factors. in addition, certain of our current or former locations are being investigated or remediated under various environmental laws, including cercla, and regulations. based on information known to us and assumptions, we do not believe that the costs of these 11 table of contents projects will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. however, the discovery of contamination or the imposition of additional obligations at these or other sites in the future could result in additional costs. on january 26, 2009, smurfit-stone and certain of its subsidiaries filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. smurfit-stone's canadian subsidiaries also filed to reorganize in canada. we believe that matters relating to previously identified third party prp sites and certain facilities formerly owned or operated by smurfit-stone have been or will be satisfied claims in the smurfit-stone bankruptcy proceedings. however, we may face additional liability for cleanup activity at sites that are not subject to the bankruptcy discharge, but are not currently identified. some of these liabilities may be satisfied from existing bankruptcy reserves. we believe that we can assert claims for indemnification pursuant to existing rights we have under purchase and other agreements in connection with certain of our existing remediation sites. in addition, we believe that we have insurance coverage, subject to applicable deductibles/retentions, policy limits and other conditions, for certain environmental matters. however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful with respect to any claim regarding these insurance or indemnification rights or that, if we are successful, any amounts paid pursuant to the insurance or indemnification rights will be sufficient to cover all our costs and expenses. we also cannot predict with certainty whether we will be required to perform remediation projects at other locations, and it is possible that our remediation requirements and costs could increase materially in the future and exceed current reserves. in addition, we cannot currently assess with certainty the impact that future changes in cleanup standards or federal, state or other environmental laws, regulations or enforcement practices will have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we estimate that we will invest approximately $40 million for capital expenditures during fiscal 2018 in connection with matters relating to environmental compliance. it is possible that our capital expenditure assumptions may change, project completion dates may change, and our projections are subject to change due to items such as the finalization of ongoing engineering and implementation work, the epa determinations on boiler mact implementation issues and the outcomes of pending legal challenges to the rules. climate change certain jurisdictions in which we have manufacturing facilities or other investments have taken actions to address climate change. the epa has issued the clean air act permitting regulations applicable to certain facilities that emit ghg. the epa also has promulgated a rule requiring certain industrial facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year to file an annual report of their emissions. while we have facilities subject to existing ghg permitting and reporting requirements, the impact of these requirements has not been material to date. additionally, the epa has been working on a set of interrelated rulemakings aimed at cutting carbon emissions from power plants. on august 3, 2015, the epa issued a final rule establishing ghg emission guidelines for existing electric utility generating units (known as the clean power plan ). on the same day, the epa issued a second rule setting standards of performance for new, modified and reconstructed electric utility generating units. while these rules do not apply directly to the power generation facilities at our mills, they have the potential to increase the cost of purchased electricity for our manufacturing operations and change the treatment of certain types of biomass that are currently considered carbon neutral. on february 9, 2016, the u.s. supreme court issued a stay halting implementation of the clean power plan until the pending legal challenges to the rule are resolved. as directed by executive order, on april 4, 2017, the epa issued a proposed rule announcing its intention to review the clean power plan, and, if appropriate, initiate proceedings to suspend, revise or rescind it. a number of states subject to the clean power plan have stopped working on their implementation strategies in response to the litigation and executive order; however, certain states where we operate manufacturing facilities have indicated their intention to continue their carbon reduction efforts. on october 16, 2017, the epa issued a proposed rule that would repeal the clean power plan. due to ongoing litigation and other uncertainties regarding the clean power plan, its impact on us cannot be quantified with certainty at this time. in addition to national efforts to regulate climate change, some u.s. states in which we have manufacturing operations are also taking measures to reduce ghg emissions, such as requiring ghg emissions reporting or developing regional cap-and trade programs. california has enacted a cap-and-trade program that took effect in 2012, and includes enforceable compliance obligations that began on january 1, 2013. in july 2017, california extended the cap-and-trade program to 2030. we do not have any manufacturing facilities that are subject to the cap-and-trade requirements in california; however, we are continuing to monitor the implementation of this program as well as proposed mandatory ghg reduction efforts in other states. also, the washington department of ecology has issued a final rule, known as the clean air rule, which limits ghgs from facilities that have average annual carbon dioxide equivalent emissions equal to or exceeding 100,000 metric tons/year and proposes to begin ghg emissions reduction requirements for some regulated entities in 2017. energy intensive and trade exposed facilities and transportation fuel importers, including our tacoma, wa mill, are subject to regulation under this program. in september 2016, various groups filed 12 table of contents lawsuits against the washington department of ecology challenging the clean air rule. we are carefully monitoring this litigation to assess its potential impact on our tacoma operations. on may 16, 2017, the governor of virginia issued executive directive 11, directing the secretary of natural resources to convene a work group to study and recommend methods to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from electric power facilities and grow the clean energy economy within existing state authority. we have been selected by the virginia department of environmental quality to participate in this work group. the paris agreement established a framework for reducing global ghg emissions. by signing the paris agreement, the u.s. made a non-binding commitment to reduce economy-wide ghg emissions by 26% to 28% below 2005 levels by 2025. other countries in which we conduct business, including china, european union member states and india, have set similar ghg reduction targets. the paris agreement became effective on november 4, 2016. although a party to the agreement may not provide the required one-year notice of withdrawal until three years after the effective date, in june 2017, president trump announced that the u.s. intended to withdraw from the paris agreement. the governors of new york, california and washington subsequently announced their intent to form a climate alliance to coordinate a state response to climate change. at this time, it is not possible to determine how the paris agreement, or any potential u.s. commitments in lieu of those under the agreement, may impact u.s. industrial facilities, including our domestic operations. several of our international facilities are located in countries that have already adopted ghg emissions trading schemes. for example, quebec has become a member of the western climate initiative, which is a collaboration among california and certain canadian provinces that have joined together to create a cap-and-trade program to reduce ghg emissions. in 2009, quebec adopted a target of reducing ghg emissions by 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 and 37.5% from 1990 levels by 2030. in 2011, quebec issued a final regulation establishing a regional cap-and-trade program that required reductions in ghg emissions from covered emitters as of january 1, 2013. our mill in quebec is subject to these cap-and-trade requirements, although the direct impact of this regulation has not been material to date. compliance with this program and other similar programs may require future expenditures to meet required ghg emission reduction requirements in future years. the regulation of climate change continues to develop in the areas of the world where we conduct business. we have systems in place for tracking the ghg emissions from our energy-intensive facilities, and we carefully monitor developments in climate change laws, regulations and policies to assess the potential impact of such developments on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and disclosure obligations. patents and other intellectual property we hold a substantial number of foreign and domestic trademarks, trademark applications, trade names, patents, patent applications and licenses relating to our business, our products and our production processes. our patent portfolio consists primarily of utility and design patents relating to our products and manufacturing operations. it also includes exclusive rights to substantial proprietary packaging system technology in the u.s. or other licenses obtained from a third party. our brand name and logo, and certain of our products and services, are protected by domestic and foreign trademark rights. our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, particularly those relating to our converting operations, are important to our operations as a whole. our intellectual property has various expiration dates. see item 1a. risk factors we depend on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products and/or to acquire and retain intellectual property rights . employees at september 30, 2017 , we had approximately 44,800 employees, of which approximately 34,100 were located in the u.s. and canada and 10,700 were located in europe, south america, mexico and asia/pacific. of the approximately 44,800 employees, approximately 31,800 were hourly and approximately 13,000 were salaried. approximately 13,900 of our hourly employees in the u.s. and canada are covered by cbas, which typically have four to six year terms. approximately 2,500 of our employees in the u.s. and canada are working under expired contracts and approximately 1,100 of our u.s. and canada employees are covered under cbas that expire within one year. approximately 5,200 of our employees outside the u.s. and canada are covered by agreements similar to cbas, which most frequently have four to six year terms. approximately 2,100 of our employees not based in the u.s. and canada are working under expired agreements and approximately 1,100 of them are covered under agreements that expire within one year. while we have experienced isolated work stoppages in the past, we have been able to resolve them and we believe that working relationships with our employees are generally good. while the terms of our cbas vary, we believe the material terms of the agreements are customary for the industry, the type of facility, the classification of the employees and the geographic location covered. 13 table of contents in october 2014, we entered into a master agreement with the usw that applied to substantially all of our legacy rocktenn facilities represented by the usw at that time. the agreement has a six year term and covers a number of specific items, including wages, medical coverage and certain other benefit programs, substance abuse testing and successorship. individual facilities will continue to have local agreements for subjects not covered by the master agreement and those agreements will continue to have staggered terms. wage increases specified in the master agreement will not begin until the local facility agreements have been negotiated and ratified. the master agreement permits us to apply its terms to usw employees who work at facilities we acquire during the term of the agreement. the master agreement covers 59 of our u.s. facilities and approximately 6,800 of our employees. see item 1a. risk factors we may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters . international operations our operations outside the u.s. are conducted through subsidiaries located in canada, mexico, south america, europe, asia and australia. sales attributable to non-u.s. operations were 17.6% , 17.1% and 13.5% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, some of which were transacted in u.s. dollars. see note 21. segment information of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. see item 1a. risk factors we are exposed to risks related to international sales and operations . available information our internet address is www.westrock.com . our internet address is included herein as an inactive textual reference only. the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference herein and should not be considered part of this report. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec and we make available free of charge most of our sec filings through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the sec. you may access these sec filings via the hyperlink that we provide on our website to a third-party sec filings website. we also make available on our website our board committee charters, as well as the corporate governance guidelines adopted by our board of directors, our code of conduct for employees, our code of conduct and ethics for the board of directors and our code of ethical conduct for ceo and senior financial officers. any amendments to, or waiver from, any provision of these codes that are required to be disclosed will be posted on our website. we will also provide copies of these documents, without charge, at the written request of any stockholder of record. requests for copies should be mailed to: westrock company, 504 thrasher street, norcross, georgia 30071, attention: corporate secretary through december 31, 2017 and westrock company, 1000 abernathy road, suite l-2, atlanta, georgia 30328, attention: corporate secretary thereafter. forward-looking information this report contains statements that relate to future, rather than past, events. these are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial conditions, and often contain words such as may , will , could , would , anticipate , intend , estimate , project , plan , believe , expect , target and potential , or refer to future time periods. forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current expectations, beliefs, plans or forecasts, and include statements made in this report regarding, among other things: our belief that we are one of the largest paper recyclers in north america; our belief that we are one of the largest manufacturer of temporary promotional point-of-purchase displays in north america measured by net sales and the largest manufacturer of solid fiber partitions in north america measured by net sales; our belief that we would be able to source significant replacement quantities from other suppliers in the event we incur production disruptions for recycled or virgin paperboard or containerboard; our belief that we have good relationships with our customers; our belief that we compete effectively on price, design, product innovation, quality and service; our belief that future compliance with health and safety laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; our belief that the currently expected outcome of environmental proceedings and claims that are pending or threatened against us will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; our belief that the costs associated with investigations or remediations under environmental laws, including cercla, and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; our belief that matters relating to previously identified third party prp sites and certain facilities formerly owned or operated by smurfit-stone have been or will be satisfied claims in the smurfit-stone bankruptcy proceedings; that we may face additional liability for cleanup activity at sites that are not subject to the smurfit-stone bankruptcy discharge, but are not currently identified; our belief that we can assert claims for indemnification pursuant to existing rights we have under purchase and other agreements in connection with certain of our existing remediation sites and have insurance coverage, subject to applicable deductibles/retentions, policy limits and other conditions, for certain environmental matters; our belief that working relationships with our employees are generally good; our belief that the material terms of our cbas are customary for the industry, the type of facility, the classification of the employees and the geographic location covered; our expectation that we will benefit from operational synergies resulting from 14 table of contents the consolidation of capabilities and the elimination of redundancies related to the combination, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration, and realize revenue synergies through an expanded and complementary product offering and increased geographic reach; our belief that certain mepps in which we participate, including piumpf, have material unfunded vested benefits; that we are considering withdrawing from one or more mepps, and it is reasonably possible that we may incur significant withdrawal liability with respect to certain mepps in connection with such withdrawal(s) and that we may be obligated to pay a share of a particular mepp's accumulated funding deficiency as determined under the pension act; that we believe our withdrawal liability would be approximately $140 million to $200 million if we were to withdraw from all of the mepps in which we participate prior to the end of calendar 2017; our expectation that we will complete the monetization of our land and development asset portfolio in fiscal 2018; our expectation that we will complete the relocation of our principal offices in the first half of fiscal 2018; our belief that our existing production capacity is adequate to serve existing demand for our products and that our plants and equipment are in good condition; our expectation that should the volume of asbestos-related personal injury litigation grow substantially, it is possible that we could incur significant costs resolving these cases; our expectation that the resolution of pending asbestos-related personal injury litigation and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity; our expectation that in any given period or periods, it is possible that asbestos-related proceedings or matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; our belief that the resolution of other lawsuits, claims and other proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; our belief that our exposure related to guarantees will not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; our belief that our strong balance sheet and cash flow provide us the flexibility to continue to invest to sustain and improve our operating performance; the potential for us to engage in restructuring opportunities in the future; our expectation that the island container acquisition will enable us to integrate more than 80,000 tons of containerboard annually into our corrugated packaging segment; our expectation that the hannapak acquisition will build on our established and growing packaging business in australia; our belief that the u.s. corrugated acquisition will enable us to increase the vertical integration of our corrugated packaging segment by approximately 105,000 tons of containerboard annually through the acquired facilities and another 50,000 tons under a long-term supply contract with another company owned by the seller; our belief that the mps acquisition increases annual paperboard consumption by approximately 225,000 tons, of which we expect 35% to 45% to be supplied by us; our belief that the star pizza acquisition provides us with a leadership position in the fast growing small-run pizza box market and increases our vertical integration; our belief that the joint venture with grupo gondi will help us grow our presence in the attractive mexican market; that we may be required to incur additional indebtedness to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of our put and call options related to the grupo gondi joint venture; that we may form additional joint ventures; our belief that the packaging acquisition has provided us with attractive and complementary customers, markets and facilities; our belief that we have an opportunity to improve our performance through capital investment; our belief that capital expenditures in fiscal 2018 will be approximately $1.0 billion, of which approximately $0.2 billion will be deployed in fiscal 2018 in connection with a planned investments in (a) a new corrugated box plant in the brazilian state of sao paulo, and our belief that this box plant will allow us to meet a growing demand from our regional customers in south america, (b) a project to install a 330 state-of-the-art kraft linerboard machine in our florence, south carolina mill with production expected to commence in the first half of calendar 2020 and (c) a coater at our mahrt mill in alabama that will be completed in fiscal 2019; our estimation that we will invest approximately $40 million for capital expenditures during fiscal 2018 in connection with matters relating to environmental compliance; our expectation that in fiscal 2018 we will invest in projects (i) to maintain and operate our mills and plants safely, reliably and in compliance with regulations, (ii) that support our strategy to improve the competitiveness of our mill and converting assets, (iii) to support our $1.0 billion run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by june 30, 2018, (iv) to build the box plant in brazil noted above to meet growing demand from our regional customers in south america, (v) to install the machine in our florence, south carolina mill noted above, (vi) to invest in the coater at our mahrt mill noted above and (vii) to generate attractive returns; our estimation that our baseline maintenance and return generating capital expenditures will be approximately $800 to $850 million per year; our expectation that we will utilize the remaining u.s. federal net operating losses, alternative minimum tax and other u.s. federal credits primarily over the next three years; our expectation that we will receive tax benefits in fiscal 2018 and future years from the u.s. manufacturer's deduction; that foreign and state net operating losses and credits will be used over a longer period of time; our expectation that our cash tax rate will move closer to our income tax rate in fiscal 2018, 2019 and 2020; our expectation that we will contribute approximately $39 million to our u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans in fiscal 2018, primarily related to our canadian plans; our expectation that we will continue to make contributions in the coming years to our pension plans in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate in light of projected liabilities and to meet the requirements of the pension act and other regulations; our estimation that minimum pension contributions to our u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans will be in the range of approximately $27 million to $42 million annually in fiscal 2019 through 2022; that we do not expect the settlement of certain u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plan obligations through lump sum payments to require us to make additional pension plan contributions; that we anticipate that we will be able to fund our capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends and stock repurchases, pension payments, working capital needs, note repurchases, restructuring and integration activities, repayments of current portion of long-term debt and other corporate actions for the foreseeable future from cash generated from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities, proceeds from our a/r sales agreement, proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity securities or other additional long-term debt financing, including new or amended facilities; our belief that there is not a reasonable l 15 table of contents ikelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to estimate allowances for doubtful accounts, credits, returns and allowances, and cash discounts; our belief that there is not a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate impairment losses; that we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material; our belief that our restructuring estimates are reasonable; that we may enter into various hedging transactions; that we may from time to time use interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate characteristics of a portion of our outstanding debt; that we may from time to time use foreign-exchange hedge contracts with terms of generally less than one year to hedge exposures; our belief that our pension assumptions are within accepted industry ranges; our belief that our health insurance, workers' compensation and pension and other postretirement benefits assumptions are appropriate; our belief that our restructuring actions have allowed us to more effectively manage our business; our belief that our tax positions are appropriate; our belief that the quebec cap-and-trade program and other similar programs may require future expenditures to meet required ghg emission reduction requirements in future years; the impact of a hypothetical 10% increase on the prices of various commodities, products, raw materials, freight and energy; our expectation that integration activities will continue during fiscal 2018 and that we may face significant challenges integrating the acquired company's technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in their business cultures and retaining key personnel; our expectation that the integration of closed facilities' assets and production with other facilities will enable the receiving facilities to better leverage their fixed costs while eliminating fixed costs from closed facilities; the expected impact of market risks, such as interest rate risk, pension plan risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risks, energy price risk, rates of return, the risk of investments in derivative instruments, and the risk of counterparty nonperformance, and expected factors affecting those risks including our increased exposure to foreign currency as a result of the combination and the mps acquisition; our assumptions and expectations regarding critical accounting policies and estimates; our recording of net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe such assets are more likely than not to be realized; our expectation of the impact of implementation of various accounting standards, including that certain of these standards will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. you should not rely on our forward-looking statements. these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control, dependent on actions of third parties or currently unknown to us as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the level of demand for our products; our ability to successfully identify and make performance improvements; anticipated returns on our capital investments; our ability to achieve benefits from acquisitions and the timing thereof; uncertainties related to planned and unplanned mill outages or production disruptions; investment performance, discount rates, return on pension plan assets and expected compensation levels; increases in energy, raw materials, shipping and capital equipment costs; fluctuations in selling prices and volumes; intense competition; the impact of operational restructuring activities; potential liability for outstanding guarantees and indemnities and the potential impact of such liabilities; changes in law, economic and financial conditions, including interest and exchange rate volatility, commodity and equity prices; our ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the amount and timing of our cash flows and earnings and other conditions, which may affect our ability to pay our quarterly dividend at the planned level or to repurchase shares at planned levels; our capital allocation plans, as such plans may change including with respect to the timing and size of share repurchases, acquisitions, joint ventures, dispositions and other strategic actions; the impact of announced price increases or decreases and the impact of the gain and loss of customers; compliance with governmental laws and regulations, including those related to the environment; the scope, and timing and outcome of any litigation, claims, or other proceedings or dispute resolutions, including the antitrust litigation and the impact of any such litigation, claims or other proceedings or dispute resolutions on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows; income tax rates, future deferred tax expense and future cash tax payments; future debt repayment; the occurrence of severe weather or a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flood, fire, or other unanticipated problems such as labor difficulties, equipment failure or unscheduled maintenance and repair, which could result in operational disruptions of varied duration; and other factors that are discussed in item 1a. risk factors . forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements other than as required by law. you are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the sec. item 1a. risk factors we are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more occur, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. in evaluating us, our business and a potential investment in our securities, you should consider the following risk factors and the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the sec. the risks addressed below are not the only ones 16 table of contents we face. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also adversely impact our business in the future. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the combination the success of the combination will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the rocktenn and mwv businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities, realizes anticipated synergies and achieves the identified projected cost savings and revenue growth trends. in connection with the combination, we set a $1.0 billion run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by june 30, 2018. at september 30, 2017, we had achieved a run rate of $840 million. we expected, and continue to expect, to (a) benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and the elimination of redundancies, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration and (b) realize revenue synergies through an expanded and complementary product offering and increased geographic reach. however, we must successfully combine the rocktenn and mwv businesses in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. in addition, we must achieve the anticipated cost savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. achieving the anticipated benefits of the combination is subject to a number of uncertainties, including market conditions, risks related to our businesses and whether we consolidate certain businesses and functions of rocktenn and mwv in an efficient, effective and timely manner. in particular, we may face significant challenges integrating the companies' technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in their business cultures and retaining key personnel. the integration may also be more difficult, complex, costly and time consuming than we expect, and the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the combination may disrupt ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers and others with whom rocktenn and mwv had business or other dealings, or otherwise limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the combination. if we are not able to successfully combine the rocktenn and mwv businesses within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected cost savings and synergies and other benefits of the combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, the combined businesses may not perform as expected, management's time and energy may be diverted, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. we may experience pricing variability our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue experiencing, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. prices for our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products and competitive conditions in the industries within which we compete, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which may be unpredictable and volatile. if supply exceeds demand, prices for our products could decline, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. further, certain published indices contribute to the setting of selling prices for some of our products. future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact the selling prices for these products. our earnings are highly dependent on volumes because our operations generally have high fixed operating cost components, our earnings are highly dependent on volumes, which tend to fluctuate. these fluctuations make it difficult to predict our financial results with any degree of certainty. any failure to maintain volumes may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials, energy sources and third-party companies to transport our goods. the costs of recovered paper and virgin fiber, the principal externally sourced raw materials for our mills, are subject to pricing variability due to market and industry conditions. increasing demand for products packaged in 100% recycled paper, greater demand for u.s.-sourced recovered paper by asian-based paper manufacturers and the shift by manufacturers of virgin paperboard, tissue, newsprint and corrugated packaging to the production of products with some recycled paper content have and may continue to increase demand for recovered paper, which may result in cost increases. certain published indices contribute to price setting 17 table of contents for some of our raw materials. future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact the pricing of these raw materials. the cost of natural gas, which we use in many of our manufacturing operations, including many of our mills, and other energy costs (including energy generated by burning natural gas, fuel oil, biomass and coal) has at times fluctuated significantly. high energy costs could increase our operating costs and make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors. we distribute our products primarily by truck and rail, although we also distribute some of our products by cargo ship. the reduced availability of trucks, rail cars or cargo ships could negatively impact our ability to distribute our products in a timely manner, and high transportation costs could make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors. because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we may not be able to recoup past or future increases in the cost of raw materials, energy or transportation through price increases for our products. the failure to obtain raw materials, energy or transportation services at reasonable market prices (or the failure to pass on price increases to our customers) or a reduction in the availability of raw materials, energy or transportation services due to increased demand, significant changes in climate or weather conditions, or other factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we face intense competition we compete in industries that are highly competitive, and no single company dominates an industry. our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. we generally compete with companies operating in north america, although we have operations spanning north america, south america, europe, asia and australia. competition from domestic or non-u.s. lower cost or more innovative manufacturers could adversely impact our sales volumes and pricing, as could other actions taken by our competitors, including reducing the prices of their products, improving the quality of their products or enhancing their marketing or sales activities. in addition, changes within these industries, including the consolidation of our competitors and our customers, have occurred and may continue to occur, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. to the extent our competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. customer shifts away from paperboard and containerboard packaging to packaging made from other materials could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may be unsuccessful in making and integrating mergers, acquisitions and investments and completing divestitures we have completed a number of mergers, acquisitions, investments and divestitures in recent years, including the combination, our investment in grupo gondi, the separation, the hh&amp;b sale and the mps acquisition, and we may acquire, invest in or sell, or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. we may not be able to identify suitable targets or purchasers or successfully complete suitable transactions in the future and completed transactions may not be successful. these transactions create risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with: disrupting our ongoing business, including distracting management from our existing businesses; integrating acquired businesses and personnel into our business; working with partners or other ownership structures with shared decision-making authority; obtaining and verifying relevant information regarding a business prior to the consummation of the transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory risk exposure; obtaining required regulatory approvals and/or financing on favorable terms; retaining key employees, contractual relationships or customers; the potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill; the additional operating losses and expenses of businesses we acquire or in which we invest; implementing controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies we acquire; the dilution of interests of holders of our common stock through the issuance of equity securities; and 18 table of contents integrating operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. further, the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of these transactions depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings and synergies. our success in realizing these opportunities and synergies and the timing of realizing them depend on the successful integration of the acquired businesses and operations with our business and operations. even if we are able to integrate these businesses and operations successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the growth opportunities and synergies we expected within the anticipated timeframe, or at all. accordingly, the benefits from these acquisitions may be offset by unanticipated costs or delays in integrating the acquired companies. mergers, acquisitions and investments may not be successful and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may be adversely affected by u.s. and worldwide economic and financial market conditions, and social and political change our businesses may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic and business conditions; changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions in the financial services markets, including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar and the impact of a stronger u.s. dollar; financial uncertainties in our major international markets, including uncertainties surrounding the united kingdom's impending withdrawal from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit ; social and political change impacting matters such as environmental regulations and trade policies; sluggish or uneven recovery, government deficit reduction and other austerity measures in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which we operate; or other factors, each of which may adversely impact our ability to compete. macro-economic challenges, including conditions in financial and capital markets and levels of unemployment, and the ability of the u.s. and other countries to address their rising debt levels may continue to put pressure on the economy or lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates that may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. adverse developments in the u.s. and global economy, including locations such as europe, brazil, mexico, india and china, could adversely affect the demand for our products, our revenues and our manufacturing costs. we are not able to predict with certainty economic and financial market conditions, and social and political change, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected by adverse market conditions and social and political change. our joint ventures may limit our flexibility with respect to these jointly owned investments we have invested in joint ventures when circumstances warranted the use of these structures, and we may form additional joint ventures in the future. our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with: shared decision-making, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve impasses or potential disputes; maintaining good relationships with our partners, which could limit our future growth potential; conflict of interest issues if our partners have competing interests; investment or operational goals that conflict with our partners' goals, including the timing, terms and strategies for investments or future growth opportunities; our partners' ability to fund their share of required capital contributions or to otherwise fulfill their obligations as partners, which may require us to infuse our own capital into these ventures on behalf of the related partner despite other competing uses for capital; and obtaining consents from our partners for any sale or other disposition of our interest in a joint venture or underlying assets of the joint venture. our investment in grupo gondi may require us to utilize our cash flow or incur additional indebtedness to satisfy certain payment obligations in connection with our investment in the joint venture with grupo gondi, we entered into an option agreement pursuant to which we and certain shareholders of grupo gondi agreed to future put and call options with respect to the equity interests in the joint venture held by each party. these put and call arrangements may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of these arrangements, which may reduce the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures and corporate development activities. similarly, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of these arrangements. 19 table of contents we are exposed to risks related to international sales and operations we predominately operate in u.s. markets, but derived 17.6% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 from outside the u.s. through international operations or exports to foreign customers, some of which were transacted in u.s. dollars. we are exposed to risks of operating in many countries, including, but not limited to, risks associated with: the difficulties with and costs of complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; repatriating cash from foreign countries to the u.s.; political and economic instability; import and export restrictions and other trade barriers; maintaining overseas subsidiaries and managing international operations; obtaining approval for significant transactions; government limitations on foreign ownership; government takeovers or nationalizations of business; government mandated price controls; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and transfer pricing. any one or more of these risks could adversely affect our international operations and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. the future success of our international operations could be adversely affected by violations or alleged violations of the anti-bribery laws the fcpa and local anti-bribery laws, including those in brazil, mexico and india (where we maintain operations directly or through a joint venture), prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of influencing official decisions. our policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the fcpa. our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, may not adequately protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed or alleged to have been committed by our employees, agents or vendors. any such allegations could lead to civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties and/or could damage our reputation. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we depend on certain large customers our corrugated packaging segment and consumer packaging segment each have large customers, the loss of which could adversely affect the segment's sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. in particular, because our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for new business or for the renewal of existing business. the loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may adversely impact our financial results. we may fail to anticipate trends that would enable us to offer products that respond to changing customer preferences our success depends, in part, on our ability to offer differentiated solutions, and we must continually develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner to keep pace with technological and regulatory developments and achieve customer acceptance. the services and products we offer customers may not meet their needs as their business models evolve, or our customers may decide to decrease or use alternative materials for their product packaging or forego the packaging of certain products entirely. regulatory developments can also significantly alter the market for our solutions. for example, a move to electronic distribution of disclaimers and other paperless regimes could negatively impact our healthcare inserts and labels businesses. our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond promptly to changes in customer preferences, expectations and needs. our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected if we fail to anticipate trends that would enable us to offer products that respond to changing customer preferences. 20 table of contents we may produce faulty or contaminated products due to failures in quality control measures and systems we maintain quality control measures and systems to ensure the safety and quality of our products. the consequences of a product not meeting these standards could be severe. these consequences may include adverse effects on consumer health, litigation exposure, loss of market share and adverse financial impacts. if our products fail to meet our standards, we may be required to incur substantial costs in taking appropriate corrective action (up to and including recalling products from end consumers) and to reimburse customers and/or end consumers for losses that they suffer as a result of this failure. customers and end consumers may seek to recover these losses through litigation and, under applicable legal rules, may succeed in any such claim despite there being no negligence or other fault on our part. placing an unsafe product on the market, failing to notify the regulatory authorities of a safety issue, failing to take appropriate corrective action and failing to meet other regulatory requirements relating to product safety could lead to regulatory investigation, enforcement action and/or prosecution. any product quality or safety issue may also result in adverse publicity, which may damage our reputation. any of these results could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. in certain contracts, we provide guarantees that our products are produced in accordance with customer specifications regarding the proper functioning of our products and the conformity of a product to the specific use defined by the customer. in addition, if the product contained in packaging manufactured by us is faulty or contaminated, the manufacturer of the product may allege that the packaging we provided caused the fault or contamination, even if the packaging complies with contractual specifications. if certain of our packaging fails to open properly or to preserve the integrity of its contents, we could face liability to our customers and to third parties for bodily injury or other tangible or intangible damages suffered as a result. such liability, if it were to be established in relation to a sufficient volume of claims or to claims for sufficiently large amounts, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may incur business disruptions the operations at our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted or impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with: catastrophic events, such as fires, floods, explosions, natural disasters, severe weather, including hurricanes, or other similar occurrences; interruptions in the delivery of raw materials or other manufacturing inputs; adverse government regulations; equipment breakdowns or failures; unscheduled maintenance; information system failures; violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits; releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or ground water; shortages of equipment or spare parts; and labor disputes. for example, in fiscal 2017, operations at a number of our facilities were interrupted by several hurricanes. we lost mill production at certain of these facilities and incurred damages, supply chain disruptions and increased input costs associated with these hurricanes. the occurrence of any of the events noted above may impair our production capabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. interest rate increases could impact our financial condition we maintain levels of fixed and floating rate debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows (and other financial metrics) and our business outlook, and these levels may vary over time. our floating rate debt exposes us to changes in interest rates. we utilize fixed rate debt and, from time to time, derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. however, our financial risk management may not be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. downgrades in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs some of our outstanding indebtedness has received credit ratings from rating agencies. these ratings are limited in scope and do not purport to address all risks relating to an investment in those debt securities. our credit ratings could change based on, 21 table of contents among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and they may be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency or placed on a so-called watch list for a possible downgrade or assigned a negative ratings outlook if, in any rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. if a downgrade or negative outlook were to occur, it could impact our ability to access the capital markets to raise debt and/or increase the cost thereof. in addition, while our credit ratings are important to us, we may take actions and otherwise operate our business in a manner that adversely affects our credit ratings. we are subject to extensive and costly safety and environmental laws and regulations we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign safety and environmental laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances, the chemicals used in our operations, air emissions and water discharges from our facilities, the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater, the environmental impacts of our finished products and the health and safety of our employees. we regularly make capital expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable safety and environmental laws and regulations; however, these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent. consequently, our compliance costs could increase materially, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position. in addition, we cannot currently assess the impact of future changes in governmental regulations or governments' enforcement practices will have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. for example, our manufacturing operations consume significant amounts of energy, and we may in the future incur additional or increased capital and operating costs from changes due to increased climate-related and other environmental regulations. in addition to environmental regulations, we are responsible for conducting environmental investigation and cleanup activities at current and formerly owned sites. we also have been identified as a prp at various third-party disposal sites. any liability or damages we may incur in connection with these or other sites at which we may be identified in the future as a prp or in connection with safety or environmental requirements, including capital investments or business disruptions associated with regulatory compliance, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. our capital expenditures may not achieve the desired outcomes or may be achieved at a higher cost than anticipated we regularly make capital expenditures. many of our projects are complex, costly and/or implemented over an extended period of time. consequently, our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated, we may experience unanticipated business disruptions and/or we may not achieve the desired benefits from these projects, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. in addition, disputes between us and contractors who are involved with implementing projects could lead to time-consuming and costly litigation. we may incur additional restructuring costs and may not realize expected benefits from restructuring we have previously restructured portions of our operations, and we may engage in future restructuring initiatives. because we are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, including changes in the supply and demand for our products, the loss of large customers, the selling prices for our products, or the cost of manufacturing our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty the appropriate time to undertake restructurings. the cash and non-cash costs associated with these activities will vary depending upon the type of facility impacted, with the non-cash cost of a mill closure generally being more significant than that of a converting facility due to the higher level of investment. these activities may divert the attention of management, disrupt our operations and fail to achieve the intended cost and operations benefits. 22 table of contents we may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters a significant number of our union employees are governed by cbas. expired contracts are in the process of renegotiation, and others expire within one year. we may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts without work stoppages or labor difficulties or renegotiate them on favorable terms. we have experienced work stoppages in the past and we may experience work stoppages in the future. if we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements or an industry association is unable to successfully negotiate a national agreement when it expires, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. in addition, our businesses rely on certain vendors, suppliers and other third parties that have union employees. strikes or work stoppages at these vendors, suppliers and other third parties could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may incur increased employee benefit costs and certain of our pension plans will likely require additional cash contributions employee healthcare costs continue to rise. our pension plan contribution and health care benefits costs depend on multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. while the plan is over funded, we expect to make future contributions primarily to our non-u.s. pension plans in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate and meet regulatory requirements. the actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be highly sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets, and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. our pension plan assets are primarily made up of fixed income, equity and alternative investments. fluctuations in the market performance of these assets and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension plan costs in future periods. changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels or mortality could also increase or decrease pension costs. these changes, along with turmoil in financial and capital markets, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may incur withdrawal liability and/or increased funding requirements in connection with the mepps in which we participate we participate in several mepps that provide retirement benefits to certain union employees in accordance with various cbas. our contributions to a particular mepp are established by the applicable cbas; however, our required contributions may increase based on the declining funded status of an mepp and legal requirements, such as those of the pension act, which require substantially underfunded mepps to implement a fip or a rp to improve their funded status. factors that could impact the funded status of a mepp include, without limitation, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these plans, the inability or failure of companies withdrawing from the plan to pay their withdrawal liability, low interest rates, changes in actuarial assumptions and/or lower than expected returns on pension fund assets. we believe that certain of the mepps in which we participate, including piumpf, have material unfunded vested benefits. in the normal course of business, we evaluate our potential exposure to mepps, including with respect to potential withdrawal liabilities. we are considering withdrawing from one or more mepps. it is reasonably possible that we may incur significant withdrawal liabilities with respect to certain mepps in connection with such withdrawal(s). our withdrawal liability for any particular mepp would depend on the nature and timing of any triggering event and the extent of that mepp's funding of vested benefits. in addition, we may be obligated to pay a share of a particular mepp's accumulated funding deficiency as determined under the pension act. due to the absence of specific information regarding the applicable funded status and other relevant information for each mepp, we are unable to determine with certainty the exact amount of any withdrawal liability. however, based on available information, including the mepp's latest available actuarial valuation reports and annual funding notices, we believe our withdrawal liability would be approximately $140 million to $200 million if we were to withdraw from all of the mepps in which we participate prior to the end of calendar 2017. the foregoing estimate assumes payment of the liabilities over 20 years discounted at 5% and excludes the potential impact of future mass withdrawals. the impact of increased contributions, future funding obligations or future withdrawal liabilities may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. see note 15. retirement plans multiemployer plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. 23 table of contents we are subject to cyber-security risks, including related to customer, employee, vendor or other company data and including in connection with integration of acquired businesses and operations we use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. we rely on various technologies, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including reporting on our business and interacting with customers, vendors and employees. in addition, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our segments that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. our systems are subject to repeated attempts by third parties to access information or to disrupt our systems. despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, we may become subject to system damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to any number of causes, including cyber-attacks, breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, service providers, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. it is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period, up to and including several years. we may face other challenges and risks as we upgrade and standardize our information technology systems as part of our integration of acquired businesses and operations. we have contingency plans in place to prevent or mitigate the impact of these events, however, these events could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data, and depending on their nature and scope, could lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions and exposure to liability. such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions, including reputational damage and legal claims or proceedings, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we depend on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products and/or to acquire and retain intellectual property rights our ability to develop and successfully market new products and to develop, acquire and/or retain necessary intellectual property rights is important to our continued success and competitive position. if we are unable to develop and successfully introduce new products, protect our existing intellectual property rights, or develop new rights or if others develop similar or improved technologies, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. we are subject to risks associated with monetizing our land and development asset portfolio our land and development segment has historically engaged in value-added real estate development activities in the charleston, sc region, including obtaining entitlements and establishing joint ventures and other development-related arrangements. in fiscal 2016, we commenced an accelerated monetization strategy of our land and development asset portfolio that we expect to complete in fiscal 2018. our ability to execute our plans may be affected by general economic conditions, including credit markets and interest rates, local real estate market conditions, including competition from sellers of land and real estate developers, and the impact of federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting land use, land use entitlements, land protection and zoning, among other factors. any failure to execute our plans could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we are subject to risks associated with the relocation of our principal offices we are in the process of relocating our principal offices from norcross, ga to sandy springs, ga and we expect to complete the relocation in the first half of fiscal 2018. we may not complete the relocation during the expected timeframe and we may not effectively transition our workforce to the new location, in which case we could experience business disruption due to a loss of historical knowledge and a lack of business continuity. in addition, we may not realize the expected benefits of the relocation as a result of business disruption or other factors. we may fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, including key personnel our ability to maintain or expand our business depends on our ability to attract, motivate, train and retain employees with the skills necessary to understand and adapt to the continuously developing needs of our customers. the increasing demand for qualified personnel makes it more difficult for us to attract and retain employees with requisite skill sets, particularly employees with specialized technical and trade experience. changing demographics and labor work force trends also may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire. if we fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience excessive turnover, we may experience declining sales, manufacturing delays or other inefficiencies, increased 24 table of contents recruiting, training and relocation costs and other difficulties, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. in addition, we rely on key executive and management personnel to manage our business efficiently and effectively. as our business has grown in size and geographic scope, we have relied on these individuals to manage increasingly complex projects, teams and operations, and to allocate resources to match the size and geographic scope of our business. the loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. the separation could result in substantial tax liability to us and to those of our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation we have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the separation qualifies as a transaction that is described in sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from ingevity and us regarding the past and future conduct of each of the two companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings prove to be incorrect or not satisfied, or if the irs otherwise determines on audit that the separation is taxable, our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation and/or we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. if the separation is determined to be taxable, those of our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation and/or we could be subject to a substantial tax liability. if the separation is determined to be taxable to those of our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation, each of those stockholders would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the ingevity shares received. even if the separation otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction to those of our stockholders who received ingevity stock at the time of the separation, the distribution could be taxable to us in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of ingevity are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the separation. in this event, the resulting tax liability would be substantial. in connection with the separation, we entered into a tax matters agreement with ingevity, pursuant to which ingevity agreed (a) to not engage in certain transactions that could cause the separation to be taxable to us and (b) to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions. the indemnity from ingevity may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities. any tax liabilities resulting from the separation or related transactions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. we may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the separation we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with ingevity to govern the separation and the relationship of the two companies going forward. these agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and ingevity. the indemnity rights we have against ingevity under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. in addition, our indemnity obligations to ingevity may be significant and these risks could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . these critical accounting matters are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require some of management's most subjective and complex judgments. the accounting for these matters involves the making of estimates based on current facts, circumstances and assumptions that, in management's judgment, could change in a manner that would materially affect management's future estimates with respect to such matters and, accordingly, could cause our future reported financial condition and results to differ materially from those that we are currently reporting based on management's current estimates. critical accounting matters discussed in note 1. description of business and summary of significant accounting policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements include (i) accounts receivable and allowances; (ii) goodwill and long-lived assets; (iii) restructuring; (iv) business combinations; (v) fair value of financial instruments and nonfinancial assets and liabilities; (vi) accounting for income taxes; and (vii) pension and postretirement benefits. accounts receivable and allowances we have an allowance for doubtful accounts, credits, returns and allowances, and cash discounts that serve to reduce the value of our gross accounts receivable to the amount we estimate we will ultimately collect. the allowances contain uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions and apply judgment regarding our customers' credit worthiness and the credits, returns and allowances and cash discounts that may be taken by our customers. we perform ongoing evaluations of our customers' financial condition and generally do not require collateral. we adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the particular customer's current credit worthiness, as determined by our review of their current financial information. we continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our customers' financial condition, our collection experience and any other relevant customer specific information. our assessment of this and other information forms the basis of our allowances. we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to estimate the allowances. however, while these credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions we established, it is possible that our credit loss rates could be higher or lower in the future depending on changes in business conditions and changes in our customers' credit worthiness. at september 30, 2017 , our accounts receivable, net of allowances of $ 45.8 million , was $1,886.8 million ; a 1% additional loss on accounts receivable would change our allowance by $18.9 million and a 5% change in our allowance assumptions would change our allowance by $2.3 million. goodwill we review the carrying value of our goodwill annually at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed fair value. we determine recoverability by comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill applies to the carrying value, including goodwill, of that reporting unit using a discounted cash flow model. we also consider the market approach using implied public and private multiples. our discounted cash flow analysis is based on the sum of two components, the present value of our projected cash flows and the present value of a terminal value. the cash flow estimates are derived from our current forecast and our long-term forecasts prepared for each reporting unit considering historical results and anticipated future performance and capital expenditures, and require considerable judgment. the discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows were derived from a weighted average cost of capital analysis utilizing a beta that is derived from peer companies. in addition, we gave consideration in the calculation of the weighted average cost of capital for equity risks including size risk, industry risk and country specific risk, as appropriate, for each of our reporting units. as a result of the weighted average cost of capital calculations, our discount 49 table of contents rate used for each reporting unit ranged from 8% to 14%. we use perpetual growth rates in the reporting units ranging from 1.5% to 4%. estimating the fair value of the reporting unit involves uncertainties because it requires management to develop numerous assumptions, including assumptions about the future growth and potential volatility in revenues and costs, capital expenditures, industry economic factors and future business strategy. the variability of the factors that management uses to perform the goodwill impairment test depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and cash flows, including anticipated changes in revenues and costs and synergies and productivity improvements resulting from the acquisitions, capital expenditures and continuous improvement projects. all such factors are interdependent and, therefore, do not change in isolation. accordingly, our accounting estimates may materially change from period to period due to changing market factors. if we had used other assumptions and estimates or if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted. any significant adverse changes in key assumptions about these businesses and their prospects, such as changes in our strategy or products, the loss of key customers, regulatory changes or adverse changes in economic and market conditions may cause a change in the estimated fair values of our reporting units and could result in an impairment charge that could be material to our financial statements. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, of those reporting units that have goodwill, our consumer packaging and brazil corrugated reporting units had a fair value which exceeded their carrying value by a little more than 10%, due primarily to the combination and the mps acquisition and the corresponding fair value accounting. if we had concluded that it was appropriate to increase the discount rate we used by 100 basis point to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit that has goodwill, the fair value for each of our reporting units would have continued to exceed its carrying value, except for the consumer packaging and brazil corrugated reporting units. the consumer packaging and brazil corrugated reporting units had $3,586.8 million and $177.3 million of goodwill at september 30, 2017, respectively. no events have occurred since the latest annual goodwill impairment assessment that would necessitate an interim goodwill impairment assessment. we have not made any material changes to our impairment loss assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in future assumptions or estimates we use to calculate impairment losses. however, if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. accounting for income taxes our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, reflect management's best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent operations. significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense. we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense in the consolidated statements of operations. a 1% change in our effective tax rate would increase or decrease tax expense by approximately $8.6 million for fiscal 2017 . a 1% change in our effective tax rate used to compute deferred tax liabilities and assets, as recorded on the september 30, 2017 consolidated balance sheet, would increase or decrease tax expense by approximately $97.5 million for fiscal 2017 . pension and other postretirement benefits the funded status of our qualified and non-qualified u.s. and non-u.s. pension plans increased $159.8 million in fiscal 2017. our u.s. qualified and non-qualified pension plans are over funded $166.0 million and our non-u.s. pension plans are underfunded $87.5 million. our u.s. pension plan obligations were positively impacted in fiscal 2017 by market returns, our pension de-risking program and changes in participant demographics. the non-u.s. pension plan obligations were positively impacted in fiscal 2017 by an 18 basis point increase in the discount rate compared to the prior measurement date. a 25 basis point change in the discount rate, compensation level, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets or medical cost trend, factoring in our corridor as appropriate, would have had the following effect on fiscal 2017 pension and other postretirement expense (amounts in the table in parentheses reflect additional income, in millions): pension plans postretirement plans 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease discount rate $ (8.2 ) $ 11.1 $ (0.3 ) $ 0.1 compensation level 0.4 (0.4 ) n/a n/a expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (12.0 ) 12.0 n/a n/a medical cost trend n/a n/a 0.1 (0.1 ) 50 table of contents new accounting standards see note 1. description of business and summary of significant accounting policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the respective expected dates of adoption and expected effects on our results of operations and financial condition. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in, among other things, interest rates, foreign currencies and commodity prices. we aim to identify and understand these risks and then implement strategies to manage them. when evaluating these strategies, we evaluate the fundamentals of each market, our sensitivity to movements in pricing, and underlying accounting and business implications. to implement these strategies, we may enter into various hedging transactions. the sensitivity analyses we present below do not consider the effect of possible adverse changes in the general economy, nor do they consider additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. we may not be successful in managing these risks. containerboard and paperboard shipments we are exposed to market risk related to our sales of containerboard and paperboard. we sell a significant portion of our mill production and converted products pursuant to contracts that provide that prices are either fixed for specified terms or provide for price adjustments based on negotiated terms, including changes in specified index prices. we have the capacity to annually ship approximately 9.3 million tons in our corrugated packaging segment and approximately 4.2 million tons in our consumer packaging segment. although our mill system operating rates may vary from year to year due to changes in market and other factors, our simple average mill system operating rates for the last three years averaged 95%. a hypothetical $10 per ton decrease in the price of paperboard throughout the year based on our capacity would decrease our sales by approximately $93 million and $42 million in our corrugated packaging and consumer packaging segments, respectively. see item 1a. risk factors our earnings are highly dependent on volumes . energy energy is one of the most significant costs of our mill operations. the cost of natural gas, coal, oil, electricity and wood by-products (biomass) at times have fluctuated significantly. in our recycled paperboard mills, we use primarily natural gas and electricity, supplemented with coal and fuel oil to generate steam used in the paper making process and, at a few mills, to generate electricity used on site. in our virgin fiber mills, we use biomass, natural gas and coal to generate steam used in the pulping and paper making processes and to generate some or all of the electricity used on site. we primarily use electricity and natural gas to operate our converting facilities. we generally purchase these products from suppliers at market or tariff rates. we spent approximately $732 million on all energy sources in fiscal 2017 to operate our facilities. natural gas accounted for approximately two-fifths (approximately 68 million mmbtu) of our total energy purchases in fiscal 2017. a hypothetical 10% increase in the price of energy throughout the year would increase our cost of energy by approximately $73 million based on fiscal 2017 pricing and consumption. recycled fiber recycled fiber is the principal raw material we use in the production of recycled paperboard and a portion of our containerboard. we consume approximately 4.9 million tons of recycled fiber per year. our purchases of old corrugated containers and double-lined kraft clippings accounted for our largest recycled fiber costs and approximately 85% to 90% of our recycled fiber purchases. the remaining 10% to 15% of our recycled fiber purchases consisted of a number of other grades of recycled paper. the mix of recycled fiber may vary due to factors such as market demand, availability and pricing. a hypothetical 10% increase in recycled fiber prices in our mills for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $96 million. virgin fiber virgin fiber is the principal raw material we use in the production of a portion of our containerboard, bleached paperboard and market pulp. a hypothetical 10% increase in virgin fiber prices in our mills for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $115 million. 51 table of contents freight inbound and outbound freight is a significant expenditure for us. factors that influence our freight expense are items such as distance between our shipping and delivery locations, distance from customers and suppliers, mode of transportation (rail, truck, intermodal and ocean) and freight rates, which are influenced by supply and demand and fuel costs, primarily diesel. a hypothetical 10% increase for a fiscal year would increase our costs by approximately $128 million, of which approximately one-fifth would be the portion related to higher diesel costs based on our estimated 88 million gallons consumed annually. see item 1a. risk factors we may face increased costs or inadequate availability of raw materials, energy and transportation . interest rates we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily as a result of our short-term and long-term debt. we may from time to time use interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate characteristics of a portion of our outstanding debt. based on the amounts and mix of our fixed and floating rate debt at september 30, 2017 , if market interest rates increase an average of 100 basis points, our annual interest expense would increase by approximately $22 million. we determined these amounts by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on our borrowing costs. this analysis does not consider the effects of changes in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. see item 1a. risk factors interest rate increases could impact our financial condition . pension plans our pension plans are influenced by trends in the financial markets and the regulatory environment, among other factors. adverse general stock market trends and falling interest rates increase plan costs and liabilities. during fiscal 2017 , the effect of a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by approximately $11.1 million and a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would have increased pre-tax income by $8.2 million. during fiscal 2016 , the effect of a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by approximately $13.3 million and a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would have reduced pre-tax income by $0.9 million. similarly, mepps in which we participate could experience similar circumstances which could impact our funding requirements and therefore expenses. see note 15. retirement plans multiemployer plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements. see also item 1a. risk factors we may incur increased employee benefit costs and certain of our pension plans will likely require additional cash contributions and risk factors - we may incur withdrawal liability and/or increased funding requirements in connection with the mepps in which we participate. foreign currency we predominately operate in u.s. markets, but derived 17.6% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 from outside the u.s. through international operations or exports to foreign customers, some of which were transacted in u.s. dollars. in addition, certain of our domestic operations have sales to foreign customers. in conducting our foreign operations, we also make inter-company sales and receive royalties and dividends denominated in many different currencies. all of this exposes us to the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. flows of foreign currencies into and out of our operations are generally stable and regularly occurring and are recorded at fair market value in our financial statements. our foreign currency management policy permits us to enter into foreign currency hedges when these flows exceed a threshold, which is a function of these cash flows and forecasted annual operations. we issue inter-company loans to and receive foreign cash deposits from our foreign subsidiaries in their local currencies, exposing us to the effect of changes in spot exchange rates between loan issue and loan repayment dates and changes in spot exchange rates from deposits. from time to time, we may use foreign-exchange hedge contracts with terms of generally less than one year to hedge these exposures. although our derivative and other foreign currency sensitive instruments expose us to market risk, fluctuations in the value of these instruments are mitigated by expected offsetting fluctuations in the matched exposures. during fiscal 2017 and 2016 , the effect of a hypothetical 10% change in foreign segment income driven by exchange rates would have impacted our segment results by approximately $26 million and $23 million , respectively. see note 21. segment information of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. during fiscal 2017 and 2016 , the effect of a 1% change in exchange rates would have impacted accumulated other comprehensive income by approximately $34 million and $28 million, respectively. this impact does not consider the effects of a stronger or weaker dollar on our ability to compete for export business or the overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. changes in foreign exchange rates could impact the price and therefore also the demand for our products. see 52 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we may be adversely affected by u.s. and worldwide economic and financial market conditions, and social and political change . 53 table of contents